**Q: What is the purpose of process groups in Unix systems?**

A: In Unix systems, process groups are used to organize related processes and allow signals to be sent to multiple processes at once. Every process belongs to exactly one process group, identified by a positive integer process group ID.

**Q: How can you get the process group ID of the current process?**

A: The `getpgrp` function can be used to get the process group ID of the current process. It is declared in the `unistd.h` header file and has the following signature:
`pid_t getpgrp(void);`

It returns the process group ID of the calling process.

**Q: How can you change the process group of a process in Unix?**

A: The `setpgid` function can be used to change the process group of a process in Unix. It is declared in the `unistd.h` header file and has the following signature:
`int setpgid(pid_t pid, pid_t pgid);`

It changes the process group of process `pid` to `pgid`. If `pid` is zero, the PID of the current process is used. If `pgid` is zero, the PID of the process specified by `pid` is used for the process group ID.

For example, the following code creates a new process group whose process group ID is the PID of the calling process and adds the calling process to the new group:
`setpgid(0, 0);`

**Q: How are process groups used for sending signals in Unix?**

A: Process groups are used to send signals to multiple processes at once in Unix. When a signal is sent to a process group, it is delivered to all processes in the group that are not blocking the signal.

To send a signal to a process group, the `kill` function is used. It is declared in the `signal.h` header file and has the following signature:
int kill(pid_t pid, int sig);

It sends signal `sig` to process `pid`. If `pid` is positive, the signal is sent to the process with the specified PID. If `pid` is zero, the signal is sent to all processes in the current process group. If `pid` is negative, the absolute value of `pid` is taken as the process group ID, and the signal is sent to all processes in the group.

For example, the following code sends the `SIGTERM` signal to all processes in the current process group:
kill(0, SIGTERM);

### Sending Signals with the `kill` Function 
### What is `/bin/kill` program in Unix?

`/bin/kill` program is a command-line utility that sends a signal to another process. It can send an arbitrary signal to a specific process or a group of processes.

### How can you send a signal to a process using `/bin/kill` program?

To send a signal to a specific process using `/bin/kill`, use the following command:
``/bin/kill -<signal_number> <pid>`

For example, the command `/bin/kill -9 15213` sends a signal 9 (SIGKILL) to process 15213. If the PID is negative, the signal is sent to every process in the process group.
`/bin/kill -<signal_number> -<pid>`

For example, `/bin/kill -9 -15213` sends a SIGKILL signal to every process in process group 15213.

### How do Unix shells use the abstraction of a job to represent processes?

Unix shells use the abstraction of a job to represent the processes that are created as a result of evaluating a single command line. At any point in time, there is at most one foreground job and zero or more background jobs.

### What is a foreground job and a background job in Unix?

A foreground job is a job that is currently running in the foreground, and the shell waits for it to finish before accepting any new input. A background job is a job that is running in the background, and the shell does not wait for it to finish before accepting new input.

### How does a keyboard interrupt signal work in Unix?

Typing Ctrl+C at the keyboard causes the kernel to send a SIGINT signal to every process in the foreground process group. In the default case, the result is to terminate the foreground job.

### How does a keyboard stop signal work in Unix?

Typing Ctrl+Z at the keyboard causes the kernel to send a SIGTSTP signal to every process in the foreground process group. In the default case, the result is to stop (suspend) the foreground job.