You are charged with maintaining a large C program, and you come across the following code:

```c

1	typedef struct {
2		int first;
3		a_struct a[CNT];
4		int last;
5	} b_struct;
6	
7	void test(long i, b_struct *bp)
8	{
9		int n = bp->first + bp->last;
10		a_struct *ap = &bp->a[i];
11		ap->x[ap->idx] = n;
12	}
```

The declarations of the compile-time constant `CNT` and the structure `a_struct` are in a file for which you do not have the necessary access privilege. Fortunately, you have a copy of the `.o` version of code, which you are able to disassemble with the objdump program, yielding the following disassembly:

```c

	void test(long i, b_struct *bp)
	i in %rdi, bp in %rsi
1	0000000000000000 <test>:
2	 0: 8b 8e 20 01 00 00	mov	0x120(%rsi),%ecx
3	 6: 030e		add	(%rsi),%ecx
4	 8: 48 8d 04 bf		lea	(%rdi,%rdi,4),%rax
5	 c: 48 8d 04 c6		lea	(%rsi,%rax,8),%rax
6	 10: 48 8b 50 08	mov	0x8(%rax),%rdx
7	 14: 48 63 c9		movslq	%ecx,%rcx
8	 17: 48 89 4c d0 10	mov	%rcx,0x10(%rax,%rdx,8)
9	 1c: c3			retq
```

q; Value of CNT?
a; we need to determine the size of b_struct and the size of a_struct, and then divide the former by the latter.

1.  Determine the size of b_struct: The size of b_struct can be determined by observing the memory accesses made in the code. In the code, the first instruction "mov 0x120(%rsi), %ecx" fetches bp->last, which is stored at the memory address bp + 0x120. This tells us that the offset from bp to bp->last is 0x120, and hence the size of b_struct is at least 0x120 (288 in decimal). The next instruction "add (%rsi), %ecx" fetches bp->first, which is stored at the memory address bp + 0x0. This tells us that bp->first is the first member of b_struct and has a size of 4 bytes (size of an int).
    
2.  Determine the size of a_struct: The size of a_struct can be determined by observing the memory accesses made to access elements of the array "a". The instruction "lea (%rdi,%rdi,4), %rax" calculates i * 4, which is the offset from bp to access the i-th element of the array "a". The next instruction "lea (%rsi,%rax,8), %rax" calculates the address of the i-th element of the array "a" as bp + i * 40 + 8. The offset of 8 tells us that the first element of a_struct is an 8-byte integer, and the size of a_struct is 40 bytes (8 bytes for the first element + 32 bytes for the rest).
    
3.  Calculate CNT: We can now calculate CNT by dividing the size of b_struct by the size of a_struct. We know that b_struct has a size of at least 0x120 (288 in decimal) and that a_struct has a size of 40.
    

CNT = b_struct_size / a_struct_size = 0x120 / 40 = 288 / 40 = 7.

Therefore, CNT = 7.


<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">1.  A complete declaration of structure `a_struct.` Assume that the only fields in this structure are `idx` and `x`, and that both of these contain signed values.</mark>
To deduce the definition of the structure "a_struct", you need to examine the memory accesses made in the code to access elements of the array "a".

1.  Determine the size and type of the first element of a_struct: Observe the memory accesses made to access elements of the array "a". The instruction "mov 0x8(%rax), %rdx" fetches the value of ap->idx, where ap is a pointer to the i-th element of the array "a". This tells us that ap->idx is the first element of a_struct and has a size of 8 bytes (size of a long).
    
2.  Determine the size and type of the second element of a_struct: Observe the memory accesses made to access elements of the array "a". The next instruction, "mov %rcx, 0x10(%rax,%rdx,8)", saves the value of n to the address 8 * (ap->idx) + bp + i * 40 + 0x8 + 0x8. This suggests that the second element of a_struct is an array of longs with a size of 4 longs.

	1.  The value of n is saved to the memory address 8 * (ap->idx) + bp + i * 40 + 0x8 + 0x8. a. The value of ap->idx is used as an index to access an element of the array "x" in the "a_struct" structure. b. The value of n is saved to the memory address obtained by adding the value of ap->idx to the base address of the array "x".
	    
	2.  The size of the elements in the array "x" is 8 bytes. a. The value of ap->idx is multiplied by 8 to obtain the offset to access an element of the array "x". b. The offset is added to the base address of the array "x" to obtain the memory address of the (ap->idx)-th element of the array "x". c. This suggests that each element of the array "x" has a size of 8 bytes.
	    
	3.  The array "x" has 4 elements. a. The size of the "a_struct" structure is 40 bytes. b. If each element of the array "x" has a size of 8 bytes, then the array "x" must have 4 elements to fit within the 40-byte size of the "a_struct" structure.
	    

Based on this information, the definition of a_struct can be deduced as follows:

typedef struct { long idx, long x\[4] } a_struct;
