
Figure 2.1
```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <sys/time.h>
#include <assert.h>
#include "common.h"
void Spin(int seconds) { sleep(seconds); }

int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
    if (argc != 2) {
        fprintf(stderr, "usage: cpu <string>\n");
        exit(1);
    }

    char *str = argv[1];

    while (1) {
        Spin(1);
        printf("%s\n", str);
    }

    return 0;
}
```

## What is the purpose of the program depicted in Figure 2.1?

Figure 2.1 depicts a simple program. The main functionality of this program is to keep the CPU busy by running in a loop. The loop continuously checks the time until a second has elapsed and then prints the string passed as an argument. This program is saved as cpu.c and compiled to be run on a single CPU system. The execution of the program would look something like this:

```sh
prompt> gcc -o cpu cpu.c -Wall 
prompt> ./cpu "A" 
A 
A 
A 
A ˆC 
prompt> 
```

The 'A's keep printing indefinitely until the program is manually stopped, in this case by pressing 'Control-c'.

## How does the program behave when multiple instances are run simultaneously?

The program is designed such that multiple instances of it can run concurrently, each printing a different string as passed in the argument. This is simulated by executing multiple instances in the background using the "&" operator in a UNIX-like system. Here's an example:

```sh
prompt> ./cpu A & ./cpu B & ./cpu C & ./cpu D &
[1] 7353
[2] 7354
[3] 7355
[4] 7356
A
B
D
C
A
B
D
C
A
...
```

Even though we only have one processor, all four programs seem to be running at the same time, each printing their own respective strings ('A', 'B', 'C', 'D').

## How does the Operating System manage to run multiple instances of the program concurrently?

The Operating System, with some assistance from the hardware, creates the illusion that the system has a very large number of virtual CPUs. This process, called CPU virtualization, transforms a single CPU (or a small set of them) into a seemingly infinite number of CPUs, allowing many programs to run simultaneously.

## What role do APIs play in this process?

APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) form the major mode of interaction between users and operating systems. APIs enable users to run programs, stop them, and convey their preferences to the OS. 

## How does the Operating System decide which program to run when multiple programs want to run simultaneously?

The decision of which program to run when multiple programs want to run at the same time is determined by a policy of the Operating System. The Operating System uses policies to handle a multitude of scenarios and thus they form a crucial aspect of OS study. This responsibility is part of the Operating System's role as a resource manager.

