## What are the Design Goals in Operating System?

When designing and implementing an operating system, there are several key goals in mind which guide the design, implementation, and necessary trade-offs in the system. 

### What Role does Abstraction Play in OS Design?

Abstraction is fundamental in computer science and a major goal in the design of an operating system. It makes the system convenient and easy to use. 

Abstractions allow us to:

1. Write a large program by dividing it into small and understandable pieces.
2. Write such a program in a high-level language like C without thinking about assembly language.
3. Write code in assembly without thinking about logic gates.
4. Build a processor out of gates without thinking too much about transistors.

In each section of OS design, we discuss major abstractions that have developed over time, helping you understand the various parts of the OS.

### How is Performance a Design Goal in Operating Systems?

Another goal in designing and implementing an operating system is to provide high performance. This means our goal is to minimize the overheads of the OS. These overheads can be in the form of extra time (more instructions) and extra space (in memory or on disk). 

While virtualization and making the system easy to use are critical, they should not come at a prohibitively high cost. Hence, solutions that minimize time, space or both are sought after. However, perfection in performance is not always achievable, and where necessary, some trade-offs might be tolerated.

### What is the Importance of Protection in an Operating System Design?

Protection between applications, as well as between the OS and applications, is another key design goal in operating systems. We want to ensure that the malicious or accidental behavior of one application does not harm others. We certainly don’t want an application to be able to harm the OS itself, as that would affect all programs running on the system.

This principle is referred to as isolation; isolating processes from one another is the key to protection and thus forms much of the duties of an OS.

### How is Reliability a Goal in Operating System Design?

An operating system must run continuously; when it fails, all applications running on the system fail as well. Therefore, operating systems often strive to provide a high degree of reliability. This is a challenge given that operating systems can be very complex, sometimes containing millions of lines of code.

### What are some Other Design Goals in Operating Systems?

There are other design goals that an operating system might have, depending on its use:

1. **Energy-efficiency**: In an increasingly green world, the energy efficiency of an operating system is crucial.
2. **Security**: Protection against malicious applications is critical, especially in these highly-networked times. This can be seen as an extension of the protection goal.
3. **Mobility**: As operating systems are run on smaller and smaller devices, the ability for the OS to support mobility is increasingly important.

Each of these goals can lead to different implementations of the OS, depending on its intended use. However, the principles of OS design that we discuss are useful across a range of different devices.