## What is the Summary of the Multi-Level Feedback Queue (MLFQ) Scheduling Approach?

MLFQ is a scheduling approach that uses multiple queues and employs feedback to determine the priority of a given job. It adjusts to the observed behavior of jobs over time and treats them accordingly.

### What are the Refined Rules of the MLFQ Scheduling Approach?

The refined set of MLFQ rules are as follows:

- **Rule 1**: If Priority(A) > Priority(B), A runs, and B doesn't.
- **Rule 2**: If Priority(A) = Priority(B), A & B run in round-robin fashion using the time slice (quantum length) of the given queue.
- **Rule 3**: When a job enters the system, it is placed at the highest priority (the topmost queue).
- **Rule 4**: Once a job uses up its time allotment at a given level (regardless of how many times it has given up the CPU), its priority is reduced (i.e., it moves down one queue).
- **Rule 5**: After some time period S, move all the jobs in the system to the topmost queue.

### Why is MLFQ Interesting?

MLFQ is interesting because it does not require a priori knowledge of the nature of a job. Instead, it observes the execution of a job and prioritizes it based on its behavior. In this way, MLFQ is able to deliver excellent overall performance for short-running interactive jobs (similar to Shortest Job First or Shortest Time to Completion First) while still maintaining fairness and progress for long-running CPU-intensive workloads.

### Which Systems Use a Form of MLFQ as their Base Scheduler?

Many systems use a form of MLFQ as their base scheduler. This includes BSD UNIX derivatives, Solaris, and Windows NT and subsequent Windows operating systems.