## How does the client pass program arguments to the server for serving dynamic content?

Arguments for GET requests are passed in the URI. A `?` character separates the filename from the arguments, and each argument is separated by an `&` character. Spaces and other special characters are not allowed in arguments and must be represented with appropriate encoding, such as `%20` for spaces.

## How does the server pass arguments to the child process for serving dynamic content?

After a server receives a request like:

`GET /cgi-bin/adder?15000&213 HTTP/1.1`

It calls `fork` to create a child process and calls `execve` to run the `/cgi-bin/adder` program in the context of the child. Before the call to `execve`, the child process sets the CGI environment variable `QUERY_STRING` to `15000&213`, which the adder program can reference at runtime using the Linux `getenv` function.

## How does the server pass other information to the child process for serving dynamic content?

CGI (Common Gateway Interface) defines a number of other environment variables that a CGI program can expect to be set when it runs. Some examples of CGI environment variables are:

-   QUERY_STRING: Program arguments
-   SERVER_PORT: Port that the parent is listening on
-   REQUEST_METHOD: GET or POST
-   REMOTE_HOST: Domain name of the client
-   REMOTE_ADDR: Dotted-decimal IP address of the client
-   CONTENT_TYPE: POST only - MIME type of the request body
-   CONTENT_LENGTH: POST only - Size in bytes of the request body

Note: CGI has been widely used in the past, but has largely been replaced by more modern technologies such as server-side scripting languages (such as PHP and Ruby on Rails) and JavaScript frameworks (such as Angular and React). However, CGI is still in use in some older web applications and is still an important concept to understand for those working with web development and web servers.

## Where does the child process send its output for serving dynamic content?

A CGI program sends its dynamic content to the standard output. Before the child process loads and runs the CGI program, it uses the Linux `dup2` function to redirect standard output to the connected descriptor that is associated with the client. As a result, anything that the CGI program writes to standard output goes directly to the client.

Since the parent does not know the type or size of the content that the child generates, the child is responsible for generating the `Content-type` and `Content-length` response headers, as well as the empty line that terminates the headers.