## How are global variables mapped to virtual memory in threaded C programs?

Global variables, declared outside of a function, have one instance in the read/write area of virtual memory. This instance can be referenced by any thread. For example, consider the global `ptr` variable declared in line 5:
`char **ptr; /* Global variable */

There is one run-time instance of `ptr` in the read/write area of virtual memory, and it can be accessed by any thread.
### Why only one instance?
Global variables declared outside of a function have only one instance in the read/write area of virtual memory because global variables exist in the shared memory space that is shared by all threads. Each thread has its own stack and register set, but the global variables are stored in a separate area of memory that is shared by all threads.

Having only one instance of a global variable in the shared memory space means that any changes made to the global variable by one thread will be visible to all other threads. This can be useful in certain cases where you want to share data between threads, but it can also lead to synchronization and race conditions if multiple threads attempt to access the same global variable simultaneously.

In general, global variables should be used with caution when writing multithreaded programs, as they can easily lead to synchronization issues and other types of race conditions. To avoid these issues, it is often better to use thread-local storage or other synchronization mechanisms, such as mutexes or semaphores, to manage shared data between threads.

## How are local automatic variables mapped to virtual memory in threaded C programs?

Local automatic variables are declared inside a function without the `static` attribute. At run time, each thread's stack contains its own instances of any local automatic variables, even if multiple threads execute the same thread routine.

For example, consider the local variable `tid`:
```c
int i;
pthread_t tid;
```
There is one instance of `tid`, and it resides on the stack of the main thread. We can denote this instance as `tid.m`.

As another example, consider the local variable `myid`:

`int myid = (int)vargp;

There are two instances of `myid`, one on the stack of peer thread 0 and the other on the stack of peer thread 1. We can denote these instances as `myid.p0` and `myid.p1`, respectively.

## How are local static variables mapped to virtual memory in threaded C programs?

Local static variables are declared inside a function with the `static` attribute. Like global variables, the read/write area of virtual memory contains exactly one instance of each local static variable declared in a program.

For example, consider the local static variable `cnt`:
`static int cnt = 0;

Even though each peer thread in the example program declares `cnt`, at run time there is only one instance of `cnt` residing in the read/write area of virtual memory. Each peer thread reads and writes this instance.