q; what are some disadvanages to static libraries?
a; 
- Static libraries require periodic maintenance and updates, which can be inconvenient for application programmers who want to use the latest version. To use the updated library, they must first become aware of the changes and then explicitly relink their programs against the new library.
- almost every C program uses standard I/O functions such as `printf` and `scanf`. At runtime, the code for these functions is duplicated in the text segment of every running process. This can be a significant waste of memory resources, especially on a system that is running many processes.

q; what's a shared library?
a; A shared library is an object module that can be loaded at an arbitrary memory address and linked with a program in memory, either at runtime or load time. 

q; what is ^ process called?
a: the process is known as dynamic linking and is performed by a program called a dynamic linker

q; how are shared objects identified?
a; on Linux systems they are identified by the `.so` suffix. On Microsoft operating systems, they are referred to as DLLs (dynamic link libraries).

q; what are the two ways that shared libraries are "shared"?
a; 
- frst, there is only one `.so` file for a given library in any given file system, and the code and data in this file are shared by all executable object files that reference the library. This is in contrast to static libraries, which are copied and embedded in the executables that reference them
- Second, a single copy of the `.text` section of a shared library in memory can be shared by different running processes.

q; what's an example of a command that builds a shared library?
a; ```
 gcc -shared -fpic -o libvector.so addvec.c multvec.c
The `-fpic` flag directs the compiler to generate _position-independent code
 The `-shared` flag directs the linker to create a shared
read the rest