q; what's a static library?
a; a mechanism for packaging related object modules into a single file

q; what's the relationship between linkers and static libraries?
a; static libs are supplied as input 

q; how can appplication programs use functions defined in the library?
a; by specifying a single filename on the comand lines 

For example, a program that uses functions from the C standard library and the math library could be compiled and linked with a command like this:

linux> gcc main.c /usr/lib/libm.a /usr/lib/libc.a

In following example, the two related functions, `addvec.c` and `multvec.c`, are compiled into separate object modules and packaged in a single static library file `libvector.a`.

Here's the code for `addvec.c`:
```c
int addcnt = 0;

void addvec(int *x, int *y, int *z, int n)
{
	int i;
	addcnt++;
	for (i = 0; i < n; i++)
		z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
}

```
And here's the code for `multvec.c`:
```c
int multcnt = 0;

void multvec(int *x, int *y, int *z, int n)
{
	int i;
	multcnt++;
	for (i = 0; i < n; i++)
		z[i] = x[i] * y[i];
}

```
The `ar` tool can be used to create a static library of these functions:

linux> gcc -c addvec.c multvec.c linux> ar rcs libvector.a addvec.o multvec.o

An application program, `main2.c`, can then use the `addvec` library routine:
```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "vector.h"

int x[2] = {1, 2};
int y[2] = {3, 4};
int z[2];

int main()
{
	addvec(x, y, z, 2);
	printf("z = [%d %d] n", z[0], z[1]);
	return 0;
}
```
Finally, to build the executable, the input files `main2.o` and `libvector.a` can be compiled and linked:

linux> gcc -c main2.c linux> gcc -static -o prog2c main2.o . /libvector.a

At link time, the linker only copies the object modules that are referenced by the program, which reduces the size of the executable on disk and in memory. This makes it convenient for the application programmer to only include the names of a few library files in the command line.

q; how are static libraries stored on disk?
a; in a format known as an archive

q; what's an archive?
a; a collection of concatenated relocatable object files with a header that describes the size and location of each member object file. Archive filenames are denoted with the `.a suffix.`
```c
+-----------------------+
| Archive File Header   |
|   Magic Number: 0x21 |
|   Member Count: N     |
|   Member Offset 1     |
|   Member Size 1       |
|   Member Offset 2     |
|   Member Size 2       |
|   ...                 |
|   Member Offset N     |
|   Member Size N       |
+-----------------------+
| Object File 1         |
|   Code and Data       |
|   Symbol Table        |
|   Relocation Info     |
+-----------------------+
| Object File 2         |
|   Code and Data       |
|   Symbol Table        |
|   Relocation Info     |
+-----------------------+
| ...                   |
+-----------------------+
| Object File N         |
|   Code and Data       |
|   Symbol Table        |
|   Relocation Info     |
+-----------------------+
```
In this representation, the Archive File Header is a structure at the beginning of the archive file that contains information such as the magic number, which identifies the file as an archive, the member count, which specifies the number of object files in the archive, and the member offset and size for each object file. The object files themselves contain code and data, symbol tables, and relocation information.

The symbol table is a list of all the symbols defined in the object file, along with their corresponding addresses. The relocation information is used by the linker to adjust the addresses of the code and data in the object file to their final locations in the program's address space.

When the program is linked, the linker selects the object files from the archive that are needed to resolve all the symbols referenced by the program and includes them in the final executable. The symbol tables and relocation information in the object files are used to resolve symbols and adjust the addresses of the code and data as neede