1.  Write a version of the `fgets` function, called `tfgets`, that times out after 5 seconds. The `tfgets` function accepts the same inputs as `fgets`. If the user doesn't type an input line within 5 seconds, `tfgets` returns NULL. Otherwise, it returns a pointer to the input line.

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <errno.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <signal.h>

#define TIMEOUT 5 /* Timeout in seconds */

static volatile sig_atomic_t got_alarm = 0;

void alarm_handler(int sig) {
    got_alarm = 1;
}

char *tfgets(char *s, int size, FILE *stream) {
    char *result;
    struct sigaction sa, oldsa;
    memset(&sa, 0, sizeof(sa));
    sa.sa_handler = alarm_handler;
    sigaction(SIGALRM, &sa, &oldsa);

    alarm(TIMEOUT);

    result = fgets(s, size, stream);

    alarm(0);
    sigaction(SIGALRM, &oldsa, NULL);

    if (got_alarm) {
        errno = EAGAIN;
        return NULL;
    }

    return result;
}
```

The `tfgets` function uses the `fgets` function to read a line of input from the specified stream, and sets an alarm for 5 seconds using the `alarm` function. If the alarm goes off before the `fgets` function returns, the `alarm_handler` function is executed, setting the `got_alarm` variable to 1. After the alarm has been cleared and the original signal handler for `SIGALRM` has been restored, the `tfgets` function checks the value of `got_alarm`. If it's set, the function returns `NULL` and sets `errno` to `EAGAIN` to indicate a timeout. Otherwise, the function returns the result of `fgets`.

 - - -
<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">static</mark> <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">volatile</mark> <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">sig_atomic_t got_alarm</mark> = 0;

<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">The</mark> `static` keyword is used to make the `got_alarm` variable only accessible within the source file that contains it. This means that the variable cannot be accessed from other source files, which can help to prevent unintended access to the variable and ensure that it is used only as intended.

In this case, the `got_alarm` variable is only used within the `tfgets` function, and it does not need to be accessible from other source files. By making it `static`, it's possible to limit the scope of the variable to the source file, which can help to reduce the risk of unintended access and improve the maintainability and readability of the code.

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">The</mark> `volatile` keyword is used to indicate that the value of the `got_alarm` variable can change as a result of actions performed by the program or by the system, such as the delivery of a signal.

The purpose of the `volatile` keyword is to prevent the compiler from optimizing accesses to the variable, as the value of the variable can change unexpectedly. Without the `volatile` keyword, the compiler might assume that the value of the variable does not change and optimize accesses to the variable, potentially leading to incorrect results.

In this case, the `got_alarm` variable is used to track whether the alarm has gone off, and its value can change as a result of the delivery of a signal. By using the `volatile` keyword, it's possible to ensure that the compiler does not optimize accesses to the variable, and that the value of the variable is always read from memory, even if the compiler assumes that the value does not change.

<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">`sig_atomic_t got_alarm` is a </mark>global variable of type `sig_atomic_t` that is used to keep track of whether an alarm has gone off.

`sig_atomic_t` is a type defined in `signal.h` that is guaranteed to be able to hold the values of signals and be accessible as an atomic entity from within a signal handler. This means that accesses to variables of this type are guaranteed to be atomic, which is important in the context of signals because signals can be delivered asynchronously and interrupt the normal execution of a program.

The purpose of the `got_alarm` variable is to allow the signal handler to set a flag indicating that the alarm has gone off, and for the main function to check the value of this flag to determine whether to return `NULL` or the result of the `fgets` function. The variable is declared as `volatile` to indicate that its value can change as a result of actions performed by the program or by the system, such as the delivery of a signal.