#### Pointers
- Every pointer has an associated type:
	1) `int *ip`
	  ip is a pointer to type int
	2) The "void \*" type in C programming language is a special pointer type that represents a generic pointer. This means that it can point to any type of data, including data of any data type. The malloc function, which is used for dynamic memory allocation, returns a pointer of type void *, as it does not know in advance what data type the allocated memory will be used for. To use this memory, the returned pointer must be converted to a pointer of a specific data type by either an explicit cast or by the implicit casting of the assignment operation. 
- Every pointer has a value. This value is an address of some object of the designated type. The special `NULL (0)` value indicates that the pointer does not point anywhere

- Pointers are created with the `&` operator. This operator can be applied to any C expression that is categorized as an lvalue, meaning an expression that can appear on the left side of an assignment. Examples include variables and the elements of structures, unions, and arrays. We have seen that the machine-code realization of the `&` operator often uses the leaq instruction to compute the expression value, since this instruction is designed to compute the address of a memory reference.

Just read the chapter

Casting from one type of pointer to another changes its type but not its value. One effect of casting is to change any scaling of pointer arithmetic. So, for example, if p is a pointer of type char * having value p, then the expression (int *) p+7 computes p + 28, while (int *) (p+7) computes p + 7. (Recall that casting has higher precedence than addition.)

In C, pointers can be cast from one type to another. This means that the type of the pointer variable is changed, but the value of the pointer remains the same. This can be used to change the data type that the pointer is pointing to.

For example, consider the following code snippet:


`char* p = (char*)malloc(10);
int* q = (int*)p;`

Here, we have a pointer `p` of type `char*` which is assigned the memory address returned by `malloc`. We then cast `p` to `int*` and assign it to `q`. The value of `p` and `q` is the same, the memory address returned by `malloc`, but the type of `q` is now `int*` instead of `char*`. This means that when we dereference `q`, we expect to get an integer value whereas `p` will give us a character value.

Casting can also affect pointer arithmetic. For example, consider the following code:


`char* p = ...; 
int* q = (int*)p;`

If we perform pointer arithmetic on `p` and `q`, the result will be different:


`printf("%ld\n", (long)(p+7) - (long)p);   // prints 7 
printf("%ld\n", (long)(q+7) - (long)q);   // prints 28`

This is because `p` and `q` have different types, and therefore have different scaling factors. When we cast `p` to `int*`, the scaling factor changes from 1 byte per element to 4 bytes per element, which causes pointer arithmetic to work differently. This means that when we increment the pointer by 7, it will move forward by 28 bytes for int pointer and 7 bytes for char pointer.

It's important to note that casting has higher precedence than addition, this means that when the expression (int *) (p+7) is evaluated, first addition happens, and then the resulting value is casted. It is different than (int *) p+7, where first casting happens and then the result is used for addition.