q; what is stack randomization?
a; The idea of _stack randomization_ is to make the position of the stack vary from one run of a program to another. Thus, even if many machines are running identical code, they would all be using different stack addresseso

q; how is it achieved?
a; by allocating a random amount of space between 0 and n bytes on the stack at the start of a program, for example, by using the allocation function `alloca`, which allocates space for a specified number of bytes on the stack. This allocated space is not used by the program, but it causes all subsequent stack locations to vary from one execution of a program to another. The allocation range n needs to be large enough to get sufficient variations in the stack addresses, yet small enough that it does not waste too much space in the program.

q; what's _address-space layout randomization_, or ASLR
a; different parts of the program, including program code, library code, stack, global variables, and heap data, are loaded into different regions of memory each time a program is run. That means that a program running on one machine will have very different address mappings than the same program running on other machines. This can thwart some forms of attack.

q; how can attackers get ahead of randomization?
a; by brute forcing. One trick that attackers use to make this process easier is to include a long sequence of "nop" instructions before the actual exploit code. A "nop" instruction is a type of assembly language instruction that does nothing. It simply increments the program counter to the next instruction. By including a long sequence of "nop" instructions, the attacker increases the chances that their guessed address will be somewhere within this sequence. This way, the program will run through the sequence and then hit the exploit code, allowing the attacker to successfully execute their attack.

An example of a "nop sled" in practice would be a piece of software that contains a vulnerability that can be exploited by injecting malicious code at a specific memory address. To protect against this type of attack, the developers might include a long sequence of "nop" instructions before the vulnerable part of the code.

For example, let's say the vulnerable part of the code is located at memory address 0x12345678, and the developers want to use a 256-byte nop sled to protect it. They would insert a sequence of 256 "nop" instructions before the vulnerable code, starting at memory address 0x12345600. Now, an attacker would have to try every starting address between 0x12345600 and 0x123457ff to find the exact location of the exploit code.

The nop sled makes it more difficult for an attacker to find the exact location of the exploit code because it increases the number of addresses that need to be tried. However, it is not a foolproof solution as a determined attacker can still find the address by trying all the possible addresses.

A visual example of a nop sled in practice could be represented as follows:
```c
Memory Address:
0x12345600: nop  nop  nop  nop  nop  nop  ... (256 nop instructions)
0x123457FF: exploit code
```
In this example, the nop sled is 256 bytes long and starts at memory address 0x12345600. The exploit code is located at memory address 0x123457FF. The attacker's goal is to find the exact location of the exploit code.

To find the exploit code, the attacker would have to try different memory addresses within the nop sled range. Starting from address 0x12345600 to 0x123457FF, trying every possible address, for example:

-   0x12345600: nop nop nop nop nop nop ... (256 nop instructions)
-   0x12345601: nop nop nop nop nop nop ... (256 nop instructions)
-   0x12345602: nop nop nop nop nop nop ... (256 nop instructions)
-   ....
-   0x123457FF: exploit code

It's important to note that in this example the attacker doesn't know where exactly the exploit code is located, but by trying each address within the nop sled range, they will eventually find it. The nop sled increases the number of addresses the attacker has to try to find the exploit code, making it more difficult and time-consuming for the attacker to successfully execute their attack.

###  Stack Corruption Detection

q; when does memory corruption typically occur?
a; when the program overruns the bounds of a local buffer

q; how does the "stack protector" work?
a;  by storing a special _canary_ value in the stack frame between any local buffer and the rest of the stack state. This canary value, also referred to as a _guard value_, is generated randomly each time the program runs. Before restoring the register state and returning from the function, the program checks if the canary has been altered by some operation of this function or one that it has called. If so, the program aborts with an error.

#### 3.48
The functions `intlen, len`, and `iptoa` provide a very convoluted way to compute the number of decimal digits required to represent an integer. We will use this as a way to study some aspects of the gcc stack protector facility.

```c

int len(char *s) {
	return strlen(s);
}
void iptoa(char *s, long *p) {
	long val = *p;
	sprintf(s, "%ld", val);
}
int intlen(long x) {
	long v;
	char buf[12];
	v = x;
	iptoa(buf, &v);
	return len(buf);
}
```

The following show portions of the code for `intlen`, compiled both with and without stack protector:

(a) Without protector

```c

	int intlen(long x)
	x in %rdi
1	intlen:
2	subq	$40, %rsp
3	movq	%rdi, 24(%rsp)
4	leaq	24(%rsp), %rsi
5	movq	%rsp, %rdi
6	call	iptoa
```

(b) With protector

```c

	int intlen(long x)
	x in %rdi
1	intlen:
2	subq	$56, %rsp
3	movq	%fs:40, %rax
4	movq	%rax, 40(%rsp)
5	xorl	%eax, %eax
6	movq	%rdi, 8(%rsp)
7	leaq	8(%rsp), %rsi
8	leaq	16(%rsp), %rdi
9	call	iptoa
```

q; why the changes?
a; The instructions have been added to store a canary value, check the canary value, and adjust the stack frame accordingly.

Here is the detailed explanation for the changes:

1.  The instruction "subq $56, %rsp" is allocating 56 bytes of stack space for the function to use. This is an increase from the previous version, likely because the stack protector requires additional space for the canary value.
    
2.  The instruction "movq %fs:40, %rax" is loading the value of the thread-local storage (TLS) canary, which is a random value that is generated at program startup, into the %rax register.
    
3.  The instruction "movq %rax, 40(%rsp)" is storing the canary value at the memory location 40 bytes away from the current stack pointer (%rsp). This is done so that the canary value is stored at the end of the stack frame, beyond the space allocated for the function's local variables and temporary data.
    
4.  The instruction "xorl %eax, %eax" is zeroing out the %eax register, which is used to return the value of the function.
    
5.  The instruction "movq %rdi, 8(%rsp)" is moving the value of the argument passed in to the function (which is in the %rdi register) to the memory location that is 8 bytes away from the current stack pointer (%rsp). This is done so that the argument is stored in the stack frame, in a specific location, which is different from the previous version.
    
6.  The instruction "leaq 8(%rsp), %rsi" is loading the address of the argument passed to the function into the %rsi register.
    
7.  The instruction "leaq 16(%rsp), %rdi" is loading the address of the buffer into the %rdi register.
    
8.  The instruction "call iptoa" is calling the iptoa function and passing the addresses of the argument and the buffer as arguments.
    

At the end of the function, the value of the canary is compared with the original value to check if any buffer overflow has occurred. If the canary value has been altered, the program will terminate to prevent an attacker from executing malicious code.

q:  For both versions: What are the positions in the stack frame for `buf, v`, and (when present) the canary value? 
a; For the unprotected code, we can see that lines 4 and 5 compute the positions of `v` and `buf` to be at offsets 24 and 0 relative to `%rsp.` In the protected code, the canary is stored at offset 40 (line 4), while `v` and `buf` are at offsets 8 and 16 (lines 7 and 8).

Unprotected:
Line 4 is loading the effective address of v into the register %rsi. The "lea" instruction is used to calculate the memory address of a variable. The instruction "leaq 24(%rsp), %rsi" is loading the address of v, which is stored 24 bytes past the current stack pointer %rsp. The variable v is being stored at this location, so %rsi now holds the memory address of v. Line 5 is loading the effective address of buf into the register %rdi. The instruction "movq %rsp, %rdi" is moving the value of the stack pointer %rsp into the register %rdi. The variable buf is being stored at the current stack pointer %rsp, so %rdi now holds the memory address of buf. So, we can tell that lines 4 and 5 compute the positions of v and buf because the instruction being used is loading the effective address of the variables v and buf respectively, at the specific memory location which are being used as parameters for the function iptoa, which is called afterwards.


q; How does the rearranged ordering of the local variables in the protected code provide greater security against a buffer overrun attack?
a; In the protected assembly code, the local variables are rearranged in order to provide greater security against buffer overrun attacks. The stack protector is a mechanism that is used to detect buffer overruns. It works by placing a canary value, which is a random value, on the stack before the local variables. This canary value is checked after the function returns, to see if it has been modified. If the canary value has been modified, it indicates that a buffer overrun has occurred and the program can take appropriate action, such as terminating execution.

In the protected assembly code, the canary value is stored at 40(%rsp) and the variable x is stored at 8(%rsp). This means that the canary value is stored immediately before the variable x. In the event of a buffer overrun, an attacker would need to overwrite both the variable x and the canary value in order to cause the stack protector to not detect the buffer overrun. This makes it more difficult for an attacker to successfully perform a buffer overrun.

The function iptoa is being called with the memory addresses of variable v and buf, which are stored at 8(%rsp) and 16(%rsp) respectively, as the parameter values. This is being done after the stack protector is set in the beginning of the function, so any buffer overrun will be detected before the function iptoa gets called.

In summary, the rearranged ordering of the local variables in the protected code makes it more difficult for an attacker to successfully perform a buffer overrun by placing the canary value closer to the vulnerable variable, and also by making sure that the function call is done after the stack protector is set, thus providing greater security against buffer overrun attacks.

### Limiting Executable Code Regions
- to prevent an attacker from injecting executable code into a system... we can limit which memory regions hold executable code!
- In typical programs, only the portion of memory holding the code generated by the compiler need be executable. The other portions can be restricted to allow just reading and writing

