- `ucomiss` - compare single,  `ucomisd` - compare double
- These instructions are similar to the cmp instructions, in that they compare operands S1 and S2 (but in the opposite order one might expect) and set the condition codes to indicate their relative values.
- Argument S2 must be in an XMM register, while S1 can be either in an XMM register or in memory.

q; what are the three condition codes?
a; zero flag - zf, carry flag -cf, and parity flag - pf (pf is not commonly found in GCC generated x86)

q; when is the parity flag set?
a; For integer operations, this flag is set when the most recent arithmetic or logical operation yielded a value where the least significant byte has even parity.  For floating-point comparisons, however, the flag is set when either operand is _NaN_

q; what's a use-case for parity flag?
a; By convention, any comparison in C is considered to fail when one of the arguments is _NaN_, and this flag is used to detect such a condition. For example, even the comparison `x == x` yields 0 when `x` is _NaN_
 - - -
| Ordering S2:S1 | CF | ZF | PF |
|----------------|----|----|----|
| Unordered      | 1  | 1  | 1  |
| S2 < S1        | 1  | 0  | 0  |
| S2 = S1        | 0  | 1  | 0  |
| S2 > S1        | 0  | 0  | 0  |

**q: why is the first row "unordered" and why are the value all 1's?**
a; In floating-point arithmetic, "unordered" means that the comparison between two values, such as S1 and S2 in the table, is undefined. This can occur when one or both of the values being compared is NaN (Not-a-Number). NaN is a special value used to represent undefined or unrepresentable numbers, such as the square root of a negative number.

The reason why all the values in the "unordered" row are 1's is because these condition codes indicate whether certain conditions are met or not. In this case, the "CF", "ZF", and "PF" values are set to 1 to indicate that the comparison is unordered. The exact meaning of these codes can vary depending on the specific architecture and instruction set being used, but in general, a 1 indicates that the corresponding condition is true, while a 0 indicates that it is false.

**q; S2 < S1 - why is the carry flag 1?**
a; The carry flag (CF) is used to indicate the result of a comparison operation in many instruction sets. In the case of a floating-point comparison, a 1 in the CF indicates that the comparison result is "less than".

So, in the row "S2 < S1", a value of 1 in the CF column indicates that S2 is less than S1. This means that the comparison result is true, and the carry flag is set to 1. The exact meaning of the carry flag can depend on the specific instruction set and architecture, but in many cases, a value of 1 in the carry flag indicates that the result of a comparison or arithmetic operation is "less than" the expected result.

**q; S2 > S1 - why all 0?**
In the row "S2 > S1", none of the flags, CF, ZF, or PF, are set to 1. This means that the comparison result is false for all three conditions.

In many instruction sets, a value of 0 in the carry flag (CF) indicates that the result of a comparison or arithmetic operation is "greater than" or "equal to" the expected result. A value of 0 in the zero flag (ZF) indicates that the result of a comparison is not equal to zero. A value of 0 in the parity flag (PF) indicates that the number of set bits in the result is odd.

So, in the case of "S2 > S1", none of these conditions are met, and all three flags are set to 0. This indicates that the comparison result is false for all three conditions, which means that S2 is not less than S1, equal to S1, or greater than S1.

- - -
(a) C code

```c

typedef enum {NEG, ZERO, POS, OTHER} range_t;

range_t find_range(float x)
{
	int result;
	if (x < 0)
	  result = NEG;
	else if (x == 0)
	  result = ZERO;
	else if (x > 0)
	  result = POS;
	else
	result = OTHER;
return result;
}
```

(b) Generated assembly code

```c

	range_t find_range(float x) x in %xmm0
1	find_range:
2	  vxorps	%xmm1, %xmm1, %xmm1		Set %xmm1 = 0
3	  vucomiss	%xmm0, %xmm1			Compare 0:x
4	  ja	.L5					If >, goto neg
5	  vucomiss	%xmm1, %xmm0			Compare x:0
6	  jp	.L8					If NaN, goto posornan
7	  movl	$1, %eax				result = ZERO
8	  je	.L3					If =, goto done
9	.L8:					  posornan:
10	  vucomiss	.LC0(%rip), %xmm0		Compare x:0
11	  setbe	%al					Set result = NaN ? 1 : 0
12	  movzbl	%al, %eax			Zero-extend
13	  addl	$2, %eax				result += 2 (POS for > 0, OTHER for NaN)
14	  ret						Return
15	.L5:					  neg:
16	  movl	$0, %eax				result = NEG
17	.L3:					  done:
18	  rep; ret					Return
```

Line2: 
The instruction `vxorps %xmm1, %xmm1, %xmm1` sets the contents of the 128-bit register `%xmm1` to 0 by performing a bitwise exclusive OR (XOR) between `%xmm1` and itself. The result is that all the bits in the register are set to 0. This is a common way to clear the contents of an XMM register, as XORing a register with itself is an efficient way to zero it out.

q; why set xmm1 to 0? 
a; The contents of the `%xmm1` register are set to 0 using the instruction `vxorps %xmm1, %xmm1, %xmm1` to serve as a constant value for comparison with the value of `x` stored in the `%xmm0` register.

The comparison instructions `vucomiss` operate on single-precision floating-point values stored in XMM registers, so it makes sense to use an XMM register to store the constant value `0` for comparison.


Line4:
"ja" is an assembly language instruction for the x86 architecture that stands for "Jump if Above". It is used in conditional jumps and is executed if the result of the previous comparison (using a `vucomiss` instruction in this case) was "unordered" or "greater than". In this code, if the value of `x` is greater than 0, the program will jump to the label `.L5`, which corresponds to the code that sets `result` to `NEG`.''

q; why is the ordering switched on line 3 and 5?
a; In the first comparison `vucomiss %xmm0, %xmm1`, the left operand is `x` (stored in `%xmm0`) and the right operand is `0` (stored in `%xmm1`). If `x` is less than `0`, the comparison result will be "unordered" or "greater than", and the program will jump to the label `.L5` to set `result` to `NEG`.

In the second comparison `vucomiss %xmm1, %xmm0`, the left operand is `0` (still stored in `%xmm1`) and the right operand is `x` (still stored in `%xmm0`). If `x` is equal to `0`, the comparison result will be "ordered" and "equal", and the program will continue to the next instruction to set `result` to `ZERO`.

Line 10: 
q;   why can't you do something like " vucomiss %xmm0, %xmm1" or "vucomiss %xmm1, %xmm0" instead of "vucomiss .LC0(%rip), %xmm0" because you're still comparing x and 0, and 0 is already in the xmm1 register
a; using `vucomiss %xmm0, %xmm1` or `vucomiss %xmm1, %xmm0` would have been a more efficient way to compare the value in the `%xmm0` register with 0.0, as the value of 0.0 is already stored in the `%xmm1` register.

Using `vucomiss .LC0(%rip), %xmm0` is not necessary in this case, and it does add an additional memory access to retrieve the constant value from memory.

The choice of code generated by the compiler is based on a number of factors, including the compiler's optimization settings, the target architecture, and the specific implementation of the compiler.

In some cases, the compiler may generate code that is not as efficient as it could be, due to limitations in the compiler's optimizer or due to trade-offs made to support other features, such as position-independent code.

It is also possible that the code you provided is not optimized, and the compiler chose to generate the code in the manner shown to simplify the implementation, without considering the efficiency of the code.

q; how does "setbe %al" represent "Set result = NaN ? 1 : 0"
a; The instruction `setbe %al` sets the least significant bit of the `%al` register based on the state of the carry and zero flags in the flags register.

The `be` in `setbe` stands for "below or equal", and so the instruction will set the least significant bit of `%al` to 1 if the result of the previous comparison instruction (in this case `vucomiss .LC0(%rip), %xmm0`) indicates that the operands were either unordered (NaN) or equal.

In other words, if the comparison result indicates that the value in `%xmm0` is NaN or equal to 0.0, the instruction `setbe %al` will set the least significant bit of `%al` to 1, otherwise it will be set to 0.

So in this case, `setbe %al` can be seen as setting `%al` to 1 if the result of the comparison is NaN, and 0 otherwise, which represents "Set result = NaN ? 1 : 0".