q; what's the conventional way to implement a transfer of control?
a; the program follows one execution path when a condition holds and another when it does not.the program follows one execution path when a condition holds and another when it does not. This mechanism is simple and general, but it can be very inefficient on modern processors.

q; what's an alternate to ^?
a; a conditional transfer of _data_. This approach computes both outcomes of a conditional operation and then selects one based on whether or not the condition holds. This strategy makes sense only in restricted cases, but it can then be implemented by a simple _conditional move_ instruction that is better matched to the performance characteristics of modern processors.

Example: 

(a) Original C code

```c

long absdiff(long x, long y)
{
  long result;
  if (x < y)
  	result = y - x;
  else
  	result = x - y;
  return result;
}
```

(b) Implementation using conditional assignment

```c

1	long cmovdiff(long x, long y)
2	{
3		long rval = y-x;
4		long eval = x-y;
5		long ntest = x >= y;
6		/* Line below requires
7			single instruction: */
8		if (ntest) rval = eval;
9		return rval;
10	}
```

(c) Generated assembly code

```c

  long absdiff(long x, long y)
  x in %rdi, y in %rsi
1	absdiff:
2		movq	%rsi, %rax
3		subq	%rdi, %rax	rval = y-x
4		movq	%rdi, %rdx
5		subq	%rsi, %rdx	eval = x-y
6		cmpq	%rsi, %rdi	Compare x:y
7		cmovge	%rdx, %rax	If >=, rval = eval
8		ret			Return tval
```

#### 3.20
In the following C function, we have left the definition of operation OP incomplete:
```c 
#define OP __________/* Unknown operator */
long arith(long x) {
	return x OP 8;
}
When compiled, gcc generates the following assembly code:


	long arith(long x)
	x in %rdi
arith:
  leaq 7(%rdi), %rax
  testq %rdi, %rdi
  cmovns %rdi, %rax
  sarq $3, %rax
  ret
```
q;  What operation is OP?

"leaq 7(%rdi), %rax" 
The lea instruction performs an arithmetic operation and it's loading the result of x+7 in to %rax register. This instruction is adding the value 7 to the value of x, which is stored in %rdi.

Then we have "sarq $3, %rax" 
The sarq instruction is used to shift the bits in %rax right by 3. This instruction is performing **a bitwise shift operation which is equivalent to dividing the value in %rax by 2^3=8**.

So the assembly code is performing the operation of adding 7 to the input x and then dividing the result by 8. Therefore, the unknown operator is "/"

It's worth noting that the testq and cmovns instructions are not related to the unknown operator. They are used to check if the input x is negative or not and conditionally move the value of x to %rax, but the final operation is still a division.