q; what are switch statements?
a; A `switch` statement provides a multiway branching capability based on the value of an integer index

q; what's a jump table?
a; A jump table is an array where entryi is the address of a code segment implementing the action the program should take when the switch index equals i

q; what's the advantage of switch statements vs if-conds?
a; The advantage of using a jump table over a long sequence of if-else statements is that the time taken to perform the switch is independent of the number of switch cases

(a) Switch statement

```c

void switch_eg(long x, long n, long *dest)
{
	long val = x;
	
	switch (n) {

	case 100:
	  val *= 13;
	  break;

	case 102:
	  val += 10;
	  /* Fall through */

	case 103:
	  val += 11;
	  break;

	case 104:
	case 106:
	  val *= val;
	  break;

	default:
	  val = 0;
	}
	*dest = val;
	}
```

```c
1	void switch_eg_impl(long x, long n,
2						long *dest)
3	{
4		/* Table of code pointers */
5		static void *jt[7] = {
6			&&loc_A, &&loc_def, &&loc_B,
7			&&loc_C, &&loc_D, &&loc_def,
8			&&loc_D
9		};
10		unsigned long index = n - 100;
11		long val;
12
13		if (index > 6)
14			goto loc_def;
15		/* Multiway branch */
16		goto *jt[index];
17
18	loc_A: /* Case 100 */
19		val = x * 13;
20		goto done;
21	loc_B: /* Case 102 */
22		x = x + 10;
23		/* Fall through */
24	loc_C: /* Case 103 */
25		val = x + 11;
26		goto done;
27	loc_D: /* Cases 104, 106 */
28		val = x * x;
29		goto done;
30	loc_def: /* Default case */
31		val = 0;
32	done:
33		*dest = val;
34	}
```

```c
	void switch_eg(long x, long n, long *dest)
	x in %rdi, n in %rsi, dest in %rdx
1	switch_eg:
2	  subq $100, %rsi		Compute index = n-100
3	  cmpq $6, %rsi			Compare index:6
4	  ja .L8			If >, goto loc_def
5	  jmp *.L4 (,%rsi,8)		Goto *jg[index]
6	.L3:			    loc_A:
7	  leaq (%rdi,%rdi,2), %rax	3*x
8	  leaq (%rdi,%rax,4), %rdi	val = 13*x
9	  jmp .L2			Goto done
10	.L5:			    loc_B:
11	  addq $10, %rdi		x = x + 10
12	.L6:			    loc_C:
13	  addq $11, %rdi		val = x + 11
14	  jmp .L2			Goto done
15	.L7:			    loc_D:
16	  imulq %rdi, %rdi		val = x * x
17	  jmp .L2			Goto done
18	.L8:			   loc_def:
19	  movl $0, %edi			val = 0
20	.L2:				done:
21	  movq %rdi, (%rdx)		*dest = val
22	  ret				Return
```

q; in the impl example - how is && used?
a; The "&&" operator is used to get the address of a **label** in the code. This operator is used to store the location of a label in the memory, so that we can later use the goto statement to jump to that location.

For example, consider the following code:
```c
int main()
{
    int x = 0;
    goto *&&label1;
    x = 1;
    label1:
    printf("%d", x);
    return 0;
}

```
In this example, the program uses the "&&" operator to get the address of the label "label1" and store it in a pointer. The program then uses the goto statement with the pointer to jump to the location of the label1. Because the assignment statement x = 1; is before the label1, the program never execute that statement, thus the output of the program is 0.

Another example:

```c
void func()
{
    static void *jt[2] = {&&label1, &&label2};
    int x = 2;
    goto *jt[0];
    x = 3;
    label1:
    printf("%d", x);
    return;
    label2:
    x = 4;
    printf("%d", x);
    return;
}
```
In this example, the program uses the "&&" operator to get the address of the labels "label1" and "label2" and store them in an array of pointers called jt. The program uses the variable x to determine which case is being executed and then uses that value to index into the jump table jt and find the address of the corresponding label. Then it uses the goto statement to jump to that label and execute the code associated with that case. The output of the function would be 2.

The "&&" operator is used in combination with the goto statement to achieve a multiway branch in the code, similar to a switch statement but with some performance advantages.

#### 3.30
1.  In the C function that follows, we have omitted the body of the `switch` statement. In the C code, the case labels did not span a contiguous range, and some cases had multiple labels.
    
    ```c
    
    void switch2 (long x, long *dest) {
    	long val = 0;
    	switch (x) {
    	   ⋮ Body of switch statement omitted
    	}
    	*dest = val;
    }
    ```
    
    In compiling the function, gcc generates the assembly code that follows for the initial part of the procedure, with variable `x` in `%rdi:`
    
    ```c
    
    	void switch2(long x, long *dest)
    	x in %rdi
    1	switch2:
    2	  addq	$1, %rdi
    3	  cmpq	$8, %rdi
    4	  ja	.L2
    5	  jmp	*.L4(,%rdi,8)
    ```
    
    It generates the following code for the jump table:
    
    ```c
    
    1	.L4:
    2	.quad	.L9
    3	.quad	.L5
    4	.quad	.L6
    5	.quad	.L7
    6	.quad	.L2
    7	.quad	.L7
    8	.quad	.L8
    9	.quad	.L2
    10	.quad	.L5
    ```
    
    Based on this information, answer the following questions:
    
    1.  What were the values of the case labels in the `switch` statement?
        Line 2: In this particular example, the case label -1 is not present, so if `x` is -1, the program will not execute any code and will continue to the next case label, which is case 0. That means that the minimum case label is –1.
Line 3: The instruction `cmpq $8, %rdi` compares the value of `x` with 8, and the instruction `ja .L2` jumps to the label `.L2` if the value of `x` is greater than 8. This check is done to ensure that the value of `x` is within the range of the case labels.

The jump table `.L4` has 8 entries, so it can handle values from 0 to 7 as the index. If the value of `x` is greater than 8, it means that the value of `x` does not correspond to any of the case labels and is out of range. In this case, the program jumps to the label `.L2`, which may be used to handle the case of an out-of-range value.

This check is useful for two reasons:

1.  It can help prevent the program from accessing memory that is out of bounds and causing undefined behavior or errors
2.  It can handle the case of an unexpected input, for example, if the input is coming from an untrusted source.

It's important to note that the comparison value of 8 is determined by the number of entries in the jump table, if the jump table had 10 entries the comparison value would be 9.

    2.  What cases had multiple labels in the C code?
	??

#### 3.31
(a) Code

```c

	void switcher(long a, long b, long c, long *dest)
	a in %rsi, b in %rdi, c in %rdx, d in %rcx
1	switcher:
2	  cmpq	$7, %rdi
3	  ja	.L2
4	  jmp	*.L4(,%rdi,8)
5	  .section	.rodata
6	.L7:
7	  xorq	$15, %rsi
8	  movq	%rsi, %rdx
9	.L3:
10	  leaq	112(%rdx), %rdi
11	  jmp	.L6
12  .L5:
13	  leaq	(%rdx,%rsi), %rdi
14	  salq	$2, %rdi
15	  jmp	.L6
16	.L2:
17	  movq	%rsi, %rdi
18	.L6:
19	  movq	%rdi, (%rcx)
20	  ret
```

(b) Jump table

```c

1	.L4:
2	.quad	.L3
3	.quad	.L2
4	.quad	.L5
5	.quad	.L2
6	.quad	.L6
7	.quad	.L7
8	.quad	.L2
9	.quad	.L5
```

```c
void switcher(long a, long b, long c, long *dest)
{
	long val;
	switch(a) {
	case __________:	/* CaseA*/
	  c= __________;
	  /* Fall through */
	case __________:	/* Case B */
	  val= __________;
	  break;
	case __________:	/* Case C */
	case __________:	/* Case D */
	  val = __________;
	  break;
	case __________:	/* Case E */
	  val = __________;
	  break;
	default:
	  val = __________;
	}
	*dest = val;
}
```
Ans:
```c
void switcher(long a, long b, long c, long *dest)
{
	long val;
	switch(a) {
	case 5:
	  c = b ^ 15;
	  /* Fall through */
	case 0:
	  val = c + 112;
	  break;
	case 2:
	case 7:
	  val = (c + b) << 2;
	  break;
	case 4:
	  val = a;
	  break;
	default:
	  val = b;
	}
	*dest = val;
}
```
q; what's the easiest blank to fill in?
a; One approach to solving this problem would be to start with the default case, as it is usually the easiest to identify.

q; how can we determine the default value?
a; 
Here is a step-by-step approach:

1.  Identify the default case label: In the assembly code provided, the default case label is `.L2`, which is the target of the jump instruction on line 4 when the value of `a` is greater than 7 and also on lines 6 and 9 of the jump table.
    
2.  Analyze the assembly code: Look at the instructions after the jump instruction to `.L2`, in this case, we see the instruction `movq %rsi, %rdi` which copies the value of `b` from register `%rsi` to register `%rdi`.
    
3.  Assign the value to the variable: The instruction `movq %rdi, (%rcx)` copies the value of `%rdi` to the memory location pointed to by `dest` which is the final value of the function.
    
4.  Write the default case in the C code: In the C code, the default case is usually represented by the `default` label in the switch statement, and it is the case that is executed when none of the other cases match the value of the switch expression. From the assembly code, the default case will be `*dest = b;`

q; after filling in the default case, what is the next easiest case to fill in? why?
a; Unique destinations in the jump table are easier to fill in because they correspond to a single case label and the behavior of that case can be inferred from the assembly code at that destination.

When a case label has a unique destination in the jump table, it means that the control flow of the program jumps to that specific location in the assembly code when that case label is matched. The instructions at that location in the assembly code correspond to the behavior of that case label.

For example, if the jump table has an entry with a destination `.L3` and no other entry has the same destination, then when the control flow jumps to `.L3`, it is clear that the instructions at that location correspond to the behavior of a single case label.

On the other hand, when a case label shares the same destination with other case labels, it means that the behavior of those case labels is the same, and the value of the case label can only be inferred by examining the assembly code at that location, and also by analyzing the C code to find the missing case label value.

In general, unique destinations in the jump table make it easier to identify the case labels and infer the behavior of the corresponding case.