q; how is the set of program registers shared?
a; by all the procedures

q; how many procedures can be active at a time?
a; 1

q; why does x86 adopt a uniform set of coventions for register usage that must be respected by all procedures?
a; so that the callee doesn't overwrite some register value that the caller planned to use later

q; which regs are `callee-saved`?
a; %rbx, rbp , and r12-15

q; what does `callee-saved` mean?
a; when P calls Q, Q must preserve the values of these registers

q; how can Q preserve a register value?
a; by not changing it or by pushing the value onto the stack, altering it, and then popping the old val from the stack before returning

q; what does caller saved mean?
a; they can be modified by any function. So if P has some local data in a reg - P should save the data before a call because Q can alter it. This can be done by using a push instruction to save the contents of the register to the stack, or by storing the contents of the register in a memory location. Once the call to Q has completed, P can then restore the contents of the register by using a pop instruction or by loading the data from the memory location.


#### 3.34
1.  Consider a function P, which generates local values, named `a0–a8`. It then calls function `Q` using these generated values as arguments. Gcc produces the following code for the first part of `P`:
    
    ```c
    
    	long P(long x)
    	x in %rdi
    1	P:
    2	pushq	%r15
    3	pushq	%r14
    4	pushq	%r13
    5	pushq	%r12
    6	pushq	%rbp
    7	pushq	%rbx
    8	subq	$24, %rsp
    9	movq	%rdi, %rbx
    10	leaq	1(%rdi), %r15
    11	leaq	2(%rdi), %r14
    12	leaq	3(%rdi), %r13
    13	leaq	4(%rdi), %r12
    14	leaq	5(%rdi), %rbp
    15	leaq	6(%rdi), %rax
    16	movq	%rax, (%rsp)
    17	leaq	7(%rdi), %rdx
    18	movq	%rdx, 8(%rsp)
    19	movl	$0, %eax
    20	call	Q
    	...
    ```
    
    1.  Identify which local values get stored in callee-saved registers.
        lines 9-14 save local values a0-a5 into callee-saved registers %rbx, %r15, %r14, %r13, %r12, and %rbp, respectively.
    2.  Identify which local values get stored on the stack.
        Local values a6 and a7 are stored on the stack at offsets 0 and 8 relative to the stack pointer (lines 16 and 18).
		q; how do we know that a7 is being stored in rdx?
		ans:
	  In line 17, the instruction "leaq 7(%rdi), %rdx" is used to calculate the address of the local variable "a7" which is 7 bytes ahead of the address stored in %rdi. then in line 18, the contents of the %rdx register (which holds the address of "a7") is moved to the memory location 8 bytes ahead of the address stored in the %rsp register. This stores the local variable "a7" on the stack.
    1.  Explain why the program could not store all of the local values in callee-saved registers.
	After storing six local variables, the program has used up the supply of callee-saved registers. It stores the remaining two local values on the stack.