- Unions provide a way to circumvent the type system of C, allowing a single object to be referenced according to multiple types.

q; how are unions different than structs?
a; Rather than having the different fields reference different blocks of memory, they all reference the same block.


```c
struct S3 {
	char c;
	int i[2];
	double v;
};
union U3 {
	char c;
	int i[2];
	double v;
};
```
- When compiled on an x86-64 Linux machine, the offsets of the fields, as well as the total size of data types S3 and U3, are as shown in the following table:

| Type | c | i | v | Size |
|------|---|---|---|------|
|  S3  | 0 | 4 | 16|  24  |
|  U3  | 0 | 0 | 0 |  8   |

The size of U3 is the size of the largest element - which is 8bytes (long and int i\[2])
pointer `p` of type union `U3` \*, references `p->c, p->i[0]`, and `p->v` would all reference the beginning of the data structure

- - -
GPT
**<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">q; "Unions can be useful in several contexts. However, they can also lead to nasty bugs, since they bypass the safety provided by the C type system" what does this mean? give an example?
</mark>**
a; 
Unions in C are a feature of the language that allow you to store multiple data types in a single memory location, with the caveat that only one of them can be active at any given time. This is done by "overlaying" the different data types over the same memory location.

The statement "they can also lead to nasty bugs, since they bypass the safety provided by the C type system" means that since unions allow multiple data types to be stored in the same memory location, it is possible to write code that unintentionally modifies or accesses the wrong data type. This can lead to bugs that are difficult to diagnose and fix.

For example, consider the following union definition:

```c
union example {
  int a;
  float b;
};
```
If you have a variable of type `union example`, you could write code that sets `a` to a value, and then later read the value of `b` without realizing that it is the same memory location as `a`. This would give you unexpected results.

```c
union example my_var;
my_var.a = 10;
float b = my_var.b;
```
Here, the value of `b` would not be 10.0, but rather an unspecified value that happens to be in the memory location where `my_var` is stored. This is because the value of `b` has not been initialized, and the value of `a` was written to the same memory location.

q; since ^ is an issue - how do you properly do it?
a; To properly use unions in C, you need to make sure that you are always aware of which data type is currently active and that you only access the correct data type. This can be done in several ways:

1.  Initializing the union: Before accessing the union, you should make sure that the correct member is initialized. For example:
```c
union example my_var; my_var.a = 10;
```
2.  Keeping track of the active member: You can use a separate variable to keep track of which member is currently active, so that you always access the correct one. For example:
```c
union example my_var;
int active_member = 0;

if (active_member == 0) {
  my_var.a = 10;
} else {
  my_var.b = 10.0;
}
```

3.  Using a union only for its largest member: Unions are often used to overlap the storage of two or more data types, with the largest member being used to ensure that the union can store the largest possible value. In this case, you should make sure that the largest member is always initialized and that you only access that member.

It's important to keep in mind that unions are a low-level feature of the C language, and that they should be used with caution. In many cases, it may be better to use a different data structure, such as a struct, to achieve the same goal.

<mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">q: when should unions be used if at all?
</mark>
a;
1.  Saving memory:

```c
union saved_memory {
    int i;
    float f;
    char c[4];
};

int main() {
    union saved_memory sm;
    sm.i = 42;
    printf("%d\n", sm.i);
    sm.f = 3.14;
    printf("%f\n", sm.f);
}
```
In this example, the union `saved_memory` is used to store an `int`, a `float`, or an array of `char`s in the same memory location. By using a union, we save memory compared to using separate variables for each type of data.

2.  Type punning:
```c
union type_punning {
    int i;
    float f;
};

int main() {
    union type_punning tp;
    tp.i = 0x40490fdb;
    printf("%f\n", tp.f);
}

```
In this example, the union type_punning is used to treat the same memory location as both an int and a float. By using a union, we can easily convert between the two types, which can be useful when reading binary data or interpreting a value in different ways.

Bit manipulation:
```c
union bit_manipulation {
    unsigned int i;
    struct {
        unsigned char b1;
        unsigned char b2;
        unsigned char b3;
        unsigned char b4;
    } bytes;
};

int main() {
    union bit_manipulation bm;
    bm.i = 0xAABBCCDD;
    printf("%x %x %x %x\n", bm.bytes.b1, bm.bytes.b2, bm.bytes.b3, bm.bytes.b4);
}
```
In this example, the union `bit_manipulation` is used to manipulate individual bits of an `unsigned int`. By using a union, we can access the individual bytes that make up the `int`, which can be useful in certain low-level programming scenarios.
- - -

q; what's an application of union?
a; READ THE BOOK. This chapter is concise!!!

#### 3.43
Suppose you are given the job of checking that a C compiler generates the proper code for structure and union access. You write the following structure declaration:

```c

typedef union {
	struct {
	  long u;
	  short v;
	  char w;
	} t1;
	struct {
	  int a[2];
	  char *p;
	} t2;
} u_type;
```

You write a series of functions of the form

```c

void get(u_type *up, type *dest) {
	*dest = expr;
}
```

with different access expressions _expr_ and with destination data type _type_ set according to type associated with _expr_. You then examine the code generated when compiling the functions to see if they match your expectations.

Suppose in these functions that `up` and `dest` are loaded into registers `%rdi` and `%rsi`, respectively. Fill in the following table with data type _type_ and sequences of one to three instructions to compute the expression and store the result at `dest`.
| EXPR                 | TYPE       | Code                                       |
|----------------------|------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| up->t1.u             | long       | movq (%rdi), %rax <br> movq %rax, (%rsi)           |
| up->t1.v             | short      | movw 8(%rdi), %ax <br> movw %ax, (%rsi)            |
| &up->t1.w            | char *     | addq $10, %rdi <br> movq %rdi, (%rsi)            |
| up->t2.a             | int *      | movq %rdi, (%rsi)                              |
| up->t2.a[up->t1.u]   | int        | movq (%rdi), %rax <br> movl (%rdi,%rax,4), %eax <br> movl %eax, (%rsi)|
| \*up->t2.p            | char       | movq 8(%rdi), %rax <br> movb (%rax), %al <br> movb %al, (%rsi)    |

`up->t2.a[up->t1.u]` - when you want to access an array element - you first load the memory address of the array - then compute where the index would be in memory using the data type

\*up->t2.p 
movq 8(%rdi), %rax - get the location of p*

q: For \*up->t2.p, why do you need to do movb (%rax), %al movb %al, (%rsi why not just movb (%rax), %rsi

The instruction movb (%rax), %al loads a single byte (8-bits) from the memory location pointed to by %rax register and stores it in the %al register.

The instruction movb %al, (%rsi) then copies the value from the %al register and stores it at the memory location pointed to by the %rsi register.

The reason for this two-step process is that %al is a smaller register that can only hold 8-bit values, whereas %rsi is a larger register that can hold 64-bit values.

In this case, the value we are trying to store is only one byte, so it would not be necessary to use a larger register such as %rsi. By using %al register, we can more efficiently store and copy the data we need.

If we use movb (%rax), %rsi directly, it would copy the byte at the memory location pointed to by %rax into the %rsi register, but it would also overwrite the other 56 bits of the register with zeros. In addition, It could cause an unexpected behavior when the destination variable is longer than 8 bits.

So, the purpose of these two instructions is to first load the byte from memory location into a register that can handle only 8 bits, and then store this 8-bit value into the memory location pointed to by %rsi.