## What is the role of "Weighting" or "Niceness" in the Linux Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS)?

In CFS, the priority of processes is controlled using a classic UNIX mechanism known as the "nice" level of a process. Users or administrators can use this to assign some processes a higher share of the CPU. The nice parameter can range from -20 to +19, with a default value of 0. Here, positive nice values mean lower priority and negative values indicate higher priority.

For each process, CFS maps the nice value to a weight. Here's the mapping as an example:

```ascii
static const int prio_to_weight[40] = {
    /* -20 */ 88761, 71755, 56483, 46273, 36291,
    /* -15 */ 29154, 23254, 18705, 14949, 11916, 
    /* -10 */ 9548, 7620, 6100, 4904, 3906, 
    /* -5  */ 3121, 2501, 1991, 1586, 1277,
    /*  0  */ 1024, 820, 655, 526, 423, 
    /*  5  */ 335, 272, 215, 172, 137, 
    /* 10  */ 110, 87, 70, 56, 45, 
    /* 15  */ 36, 29, 23, 18, 15,
};
```

## How does CFS use the weight to compute the effective time slice for each process?

These weights allow the CFS to compute the effective time slice of each process, accounting for their priority differences. The formula used for this is:

`time_slicek = weightk / (Σ from i=0 to n-1 of weighti)`

For example, let's say we have two jobs A and B. A has a nice value of -5, and B has the default priority (nice value 0). This gives A a weight of 3121 and B a weight of 1024 from the table above. Computing the time slice of each job with the formula, A's time slice is about 3/4 of sched latency (36 ms), and B's about 1/4 (12 ms).

## How does CFS adapt vruntime calculation considering the process's weight?

CFS calculates vruntime by taking the actual run time a process has accrued (runtimei) and scaling it inversely by the weight of the process. This is done using the following formula:

`vruntimei = vruntimei + (weight0 / weighti) * runtimei`

In the example above, A’s vruntime will accumulate at one-third the rate of B’s due to this scaling.

## What's a smart aspect of the table of weights?

The table of weights is constructed in a way that preserves CPU proportionality ratios when the difference in nice values is constant. This means that if process A had a nice value of 5 (instead of -5), and process B had a nice value of 10 (instead of 0), CFS would schedule them in exactly the same manner as before.