## What is the purpose and functionality of the `malloc()` and `free()` functions in memory allocation?

In user-level memory-allocation libraries, two basic functions are usually used: `malloc()` and `free()`. 

`void *malloc(size_t size)` takes a single parameter, `size`, which is the number of bytes requested by the application. It returns a pointer (of no particular type, or a void pointer in C) to a region of that size (or larger). 

The counterpart of `malloc()`, `void free(void *ptr)`, takes a pointer and frees the corresponding chunk of memory. An important implication of this interface is that when freeing the space, the user doesn't inform the library of its size. This means the library must be able to determine the size of a memory chunk when given just a pointer to it.

## What is the heap and what is the purpose of a free list in memory allocation?

The space that memory-allocation libraries manage is historically referred to as the heap. The heap is used for dynamic memory allocation. It allows programmers to allocate memory dynamically during runtime.

The generic data structure used to manage free space in the heap is typically some kind of free list. This structure contains references to all of the free chunks of space in the managed region of memory. While it need not be a list per se, it's some type of data structure used to track free space.

## What is the difference between external fragmentation and internal fragmentation?

Fragmentation refers to the inefficiency in the use of memory due to how memory is allocated and deallocated. There are two types of fragmentation: external and internal.

**External fragmentation** occurs when free memory is separated into small blocks and is scattered throughout the system. As a result, even if we have enough memory for a requested allocation, we might not be able to satisfy the request because the free memory isn't contiguous.
The memory allocation might look something like this:

```
[ ][ ][x][ ][x][x][ ][x][ ][ ]
```
Here, 'x' represents used memory and ' ' (space inside the square brackets) represents free memory. Although there are 5 free memory blocks, they are not contiguous. If a process requests for 3 units of memory, we can't satisfy this request because we don't have a contiguous block of 3 units of free memory, even though we have a total of 5 units of free memory. This is an example of external fragmentation.

**Internal fragmentation**, on the other hand, occurs when memory is allocated in blocks to processes that request less memory. The unused memory which is internal to a partition or allocated space is then wasted. If an allocator hands out chunks of memory larger than requested, any unasked-for and thus unused space in such a chunk is considered internal fragmentation. 

Suppose memory is allocated in chunks of 4 blocks to any process that requests memory, regardless of the size of the request. If a process requests for 1 unit of memory, the memory allocation might look something like this:

```
Chunk allocated to the process: [x][ ][ ][ ]
```
Here, 'x' represents used memory and ' ' (space inside the square brackets) represents free memory. Although the process requested only 1 unit of memory, we allocated a chunk of 4 units, resulting in 3 units being wasted. This is an example of internal fragmentation. The unused memory is internal to the allocated chunk.

## What are the implications of memory relocation in a program and how does it affect the compaction of free space?

When a program calls `malloc()` and is given a pointer to some space within the heap, that memory region is essentially “owned” by the program and cannot be moved by the library until the program returns it via a corresponding call to `free()`. As a result, no compaction of free space is possible, which could have been useful to combat fragmentation.

Compaction is the process of moving allocated memory blocks to make free memory appear as a contiguous block. This process can be used by the OS to deal with fragmentation when implementing segmentation. However, due to the fact that a program "owns" its allocated memory until it's freed, compaction is typically not possible in a user-level memory allocation context.

## What assumptions are made about the allocator in this context?

The allocator is assumed to manage a contiguous region of bytes. In some scenarios, an allocator could request for that region to grow; for example, a user-level memory-allocation library might call into the kernel to grow the heap when it runs out of space. However, for simplicity, it's assumed that the region is a single fixed size throughout its life.