## What is the concept of limited direct execution extended with address translation?

Limited direct execution, extended with address translation, forms a critical mechanism used in virtual memory. This mechanism allows the OS to regulate every memory access from a process, ensuring the accesses stay within the bounds of the address space. 

### How does the hardware support address translation?

The efficiency of address translation is majorly due to hardware support (MMU), which performs the translation quickly for each access. The hardware converts virtual addresses, which are the process's view of memory, into physical ones, the actual view. All of these operations are performed transparently to the relocated process; the process isn't aware that its memory references are being translated, thus creating a seamless illusion.

### What is base and bounds virtualization or dynamic relocation?

Base-and-bounds virtualization, also known as dynamic relocation, is an efficient form of virtualization. It requires a small amount of additional hardware logic to add a base register to the virtual address and check that the address generated by the process is within bounds.

Base-and-bounds also provides protection. The OS and hardware collaborate to ensure no process can generate memory references outside its own address space. This protection is vital for the OS to maintain control over the machine. If processes could freely overwrite memory, they could potentially overwrite the trap table and seize control of the system.

### What are the inefficiencies of dynamic relocation?

Despite its merits, dynamic relocation has its downsides. It can lead to wastage, known as internal fragmentation. For instance, if the relocated process is using physical memory from 32 KB to 48 KB, and the process stack and heap are not very large, all of the space between the two is simply wasted.

This type of waste is usually called internal fragmentation, as the space inside the allocated unit is not all used (i.e., is fragmented) and thus wasted. With the current approach, even though there might be enough physical memory for more processes, we are currently restricted to placing an address space in a fixed-sized slot and thus internal fragmentation can arise. 

### What is the proposed solution to overcome internal fragmentation?

To better utilize physical memory and avoid internal fragmentation, we need more sophisticated mechanisms. The first attempt could be a slight generalization of base and bounds known as segmentation, which will be discussed in future chapters.