## What are CPU Exceptions?

### Q: What are CPU exceptions?

CPU exceptions are situations that occur during erroneous situations while the CPU is executing instructions. These situations could range from accessing an invalid memory address to dividing a number by zero.

### Q: How can CPU exceptions be handled?

To respond to CPU exceptions, it is necessary to set up an interrupt descriptor table. 

### What is a Page Fault and when does it occur?

A Page Fault is one type of CPU exception. This type of fault occurs when illegal memory accesses are made. For instance, a page fault will occur when the current instruction attempts to read from an unmapped page or tries to write to a read-only page.

```c
// Hypothetical code example in C
int *ptr = NULL; // points to an unmapped page
int value = *ptr; // this will cause a page fault
```

### What is an Invalid Opcode Exception?

An Invalid Opcode Exception is another type of CPU exception. It happens when the current instruction is invalid. For example, this type of exception would occur when we try to use new SSE instructions on an old CPU that does not support them.

```c
// Hypothetical assembly code example
mov eax, 1
cpuid // if this instruction is not supported, an Invalid Opcode exception will be triggered
```

### What is a General Protection Fault?

A General Protection Fault is a CPU exception with a wide range of causes. It happens with various kinds of access violations, such as trying to execute a privileged instruction in user-level code or writing reserved fields in configuration registers.

```c
// Hypothetical assembly code example
mov cr0, eax // if attempted in user-level code, will cause a General Protection Fault
```

### What is a Double Fault?

A Double Fault is a specific type of CPU exception that occurs when an exception is raised, and the CPU attempts to call the corresponding handler function. If another exception occurs while calling the exception handler, the CPU raises a double fault exception. This exception also occurs when there is no handler function registered for an exception.
[[6. Double Faults]]

### What is a Triple Fault?

A Triple Fault happens when an exception occurs while the CPU attempts to call the double fault handler function. It's a fatal fault that can't be caught or handled. Most processors respond to a triple fault by resetting themselves and rebooting the operating system.

For more information and the complete list of CPU exceptions, you can check out the [OSDev wiki](https://wiki.osdev.org/Exceptions).
## What is an Interrupt Descriptor Table (IDT)?

An Interrupt Descriptor Table (IDT) is a data structure used by the x86 architecture to implement an interrupt vector table. The IDT is used by the processor to determine the correct response to interrupts and exceptions.

### How is the IDT Indexed?

Each exception has a predefined IDT index. For example, the invalid opcode exception has table index 6 and the page fault exception has table index 14. Thus, the hardware can automatically load the corresponding IDT entry for each exception. The Exception Table in the OSDev wiki shows the IDT indexes of all exceptions in the "Vector nr." column.

### What Happens When an Exception Occurs?

When an exception occurs, the CPU does the following:

1. Pushes some registers on the stack, including the instruction pointer and the RFLAGS register.
2. Reads the corresponding entry from the Interrupt Descriptor Table (IDT). For example, the CPU reads the 14th entry when a page fault occurs.
3. Checks if the entry is present and, if not, raises a double fault.
4. Disables hardware interrupts if the entry is an interrupt gate (bit 40 not set).
5. Loads the specified GDT selector into the CS (code segment).
6. Jumps to the specified handler function.

### How is the InterruptDescriptorTable Struct Defined in the x86_64 Crate?

The `InterruptDescriptorTable` struct of the `x86_64` crate is defined as follows:

```rust
#[repr(C)]
pub struct InterruptDescriptorTable {
    pub divide_by_zero: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub debug: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub non_maskable_interrupt: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub breakpoint: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub overflow: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub bound_range_exceeded: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub invalid_opcode: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub device_not_available: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub double_fault: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub invalid_tss: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub segment_not_present: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub stack_segment_fault: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub general_protection_fault: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub page_fault: Entry<PageFaultHandlerFunc>,
    pub x87_floating_point: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub alignment_check: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    pub machine_check: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub simd_floating_point: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub virtualization: Entry<HandlerFunc>,
    pub security_exception: Entry<HandlerFuncWithErrCode>,
    // some fields omitted
}
```

The fields have the type `idt::Entry<F>`, which is a struct that represents the fields of an IDT entry. The type parameter `F` defines the expected handler function type. Some entries require a `HandlerFunc` and some entries require a `HandlerFuncWithErrCode`. The page fault even has its own special type: `PageFaultHandlerFunc`.

### What is the HandlerFunc Type?

The `HandlerFunc` type is defined as follows:

```rust
type HandlerFunc = extern "x86-interrupt" fn(_: InterruptStackFrame);
```

`HandlerFunc` is a function type in Rust. It represents the type of a function pointer to an interrupt handler function specific to the x86 architecture.

`HandlerFunc` is declared as a type alias using the `type` keyword. It defines a function type that matches the signature of an interrupt handler function.

The `extern "x86-interrupt"` part specifies the calling convention or ABI (Application Binary Interface) for the function. In this case, it indicates that the function uses the x86-specific interrupt calling convention.

The `fn(_: InterruptStackFrame)` specifies the function signature. The underscore `_` is used as a placeholder for the function parameter, indicating that it's an unnamed parameter of type `InterruptStackFrame`. The `InterruptStackFrame` type represents the stack frame of an interrupt handler.

Therefore, `HandlerFunc` represents a function type that takes an `InterruptStackFrame` parameter and has the calling convention specified by `extern "x86-interrupt"`. Functions of this type can be used as interrupt handlers for the x86 architecture.

### What is the Interrupt Calling Convention?

Exceptions are quite similar to function calls: The CPU jumps to the first instruction of the called function and executes it. Afterwards, the CPU jumps to the return address and continues the execution of the parent function. However, there's a major difference between exceptions and function calls: A function call is invoked voluntarily by a compiler-inserted call instruction, while an exception might occur at any instruction. In order to understand the consequences of this difference, we need to examine function calls in more detail.

Calling conventions specify the details of a function call. For example, they specify where function parameters are placed (e.g. in registers or on the stack) and how results are returned. On x86_64 Linux, the following rules apply for C functions (specified in the System V ABI):

- The first six integer arguments are passed in registers rdi, rsi, rdx, rcx, r8, r9
- Additional arguments are passed on the stack
- Results are returned in rax and rdx

Note that Rust does not follow the C ABI (in fact, there isn’t even a Rust ABI yet), so these rules apply only to functions declared as `extern "C" fn`.

## What are Preserved and Scratch Registers?

The calling convention divides the registers into two parts: preserved and scratch registers.

Preserved registers are those whose values must remain unchanged across function calls. This means that a function called (the “callee”) can only overwrite these registers if it restores their original values before returning. These registers are also known as “callee-saved”. A common pattern is to save these registers to the stack at the function’s beginning and restore them just before returning.

On the other hand, scratch registers are those that a function is allowed to overwrite without restrictions. If the caller wants to preserve the value of a scratch register across a function call, it needs to backup and restore it before the function call (e.g., by pushing it to the stack). So the scratch registers are caller-saved.

On x86_64, the C calling convention specifies the following preserved and scratch registers:

| Preserved registers    | Scratch registers     |
|------------------------|-----------------------|
| rbp, rbx, rsp, r12, r13, r14, r15 | rax, rcx, rdx, rsi, rdi, r8, r9, r10, r11 |

The compiler knows these rules, so it generates the code accordingly. For example, most functions begin with a `push rbp`, which backups rbp on the stack because it’s a callee-saved register.

## How Are All Registers Preserved in Exception Handling?

Exceptions differ from function calls because they can occur on any instruction. In most cases, we don’t even know at compile time if the generated code will cause an exception. For example, the compiler can’t predict if an instruction causes a stack overflow or a page fault.

Given this, we can’t backup any registers before an exception occurs. This means we can’t use a calling convention that relies on caller-saved registers for exception handlers. Instead, we need a calling convention that preserves all registers. The `x86-interrupt` calling convention is one such convention, as it guarantees that all register values are restored to their original values on function return.

However, this does not mean all registers are saved to the stack at function entry. Instead, the compiler only backs up the registers that are overwritten by the function. This approach enables the generation of very efficient code for short functions that only use a few registers.

## What is the Interrupt Stack Frame?

During a normal function call (using the `call` instruction), the CPU pushes the return address before jumping to the target function. On function return (using the `ret` instruction), the CPU pops this return address and jumps to it. The stack frame of a normal function call looks like this:

```
| Stack  |
|--------|
| Return Address |
```

For exception and interrupt handlers, however, simply pushing a return address wouldn't be enough, since interrupt handlers often run in a<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;"> different context (stack pointer, CPU flags, etc.). </mark>Instead, the CPU performs several steps when an interrupt occurs:

1. **Saving the old stack pointer:** The CPU reads the stack pointer (rsp) and <span style="background:#b1ffff">stack segment (ss) </span>register values and remembers them in an internal buffer.

2. **Aligning the stack pointer:** An interrupt can occur at any instruction, so the stack pointer can have any value. However, some CPU instructions (e.g., some SSE instructions) require that the stack pointer be aligned on a 16-byte boundary, so the CPU performs such an alignment right after the interrupt.

3. **Switching stacks (in some cases):** A stack switch occurs when the CPU privilege level changes, for example, when a CPU exception occurs in a user-mode program. It is also possible to configure stack switches for specific interrupts using the so-called Interrupt Stack Table.

4. **Pushing the old stack pointer:** The CPU pushes the rsp and ss values from step 0 to the stack. This allows restoring the original stack pointer when returning from an interrupt handler.

5. **Pushing and updating the RFLAGS register:** The RFLAGS register contains various control and status bits. On interrupt entry, the CPU changes some bits and pushes the old value.

6. **Pushing the instruction pointer:** Before jumping to the interrupt handler function, the CPU pushes the instruction pointer (rip) and the code segment (cs). This is comparable to the return address push of a normal function call.

7. **Pushing an error code (for some exceptions):** For some specific exceptions, such as page faults, the CPU pushes an error code, which describes the cause of the exception.

8. **Invoking the interrupt handler:** The CPU reads the address and the segment descriptor of the interrupt handler function from the corresponding field in the IDT. It then invokes this handler by loading the values into the rip and cs registers.

The resulting interrupt stack frame looks like this:

```
| Stack  |
|--------|
| RSP, SS |
| RFLAGS  |
| CS, RIP |
| Error Code (if applicable) |
```

In the x86_64 crate, the interrupt stack frame is represented by the `InterruptStackFrame` struct. It is passed to interrupt handlers as `&mut` and can be used to retrieve additional information about the exception’s cause. The struct contains no error code field, since only a few exceptions push an error code. These exceptions use the separate `HandlerFuncWithErrCode` function type, which has an additional `error_code` argument.

<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">pink</mark>
When a normal function is called, the return address (the address of the instruction to execute after the function completes) is pushed onto the stack. This works well because the function executes in the same context as the caller. Both the caller and the callee operate with the same stack, the same CPU flags, the same set of registers, etc.

However, when an interrupt or an exception occurs, it's a different story. These events can occur at any time, independent of the current execution flow of your program. When such an event happens, the CPU stops whatever it was doing and begins executing a corresponding interrupt or exception handler function.

The interrupt handler may not operate within the same context as the original function that was executing when the interrupt occurred. For instance, it may require a different stack, or it might need to change certain CPU flags, or it might need to use registers that the interrupted code was using for its own purposes.

For these reasons, simply pushing a return address on the current stack isn't sufficient. You also need to preserve the entire state of the CPU — all of the registers, the flags, and the stack pointer — at the time of the interrupt, so you can restore them before returning from the interrupt handler. This ensures that, when the interrupt handler finishes and the original code resumes executing, it can pick up exactly where it left off, as if the interrupt had never occurred.

<span style="background:#b1ffff">blue</span>
In x86 architecture, the stack segment register (`ss`) is one of the segment registers that holds the selector for the stack segment. The stack segment determines the memory region used as the stack for the current execution context.

The stack segment register, along with the stack pointer register (`esp` or `rsp`), is crucial for managing the stack in x86 systems. The `ss` register holds the segment selector that points to the segment descriptor in the Global Descriptor Table (GDT) or Local Descriptor Table (LDT) for the stack segment.

The stack segment selector in the `ss` register specifies the base address and limit of the stack segment, which determines the valid range of memory locations used as the stack. The `ss` register is typically used in conjunction with the stack pointer register (`esp` or `rsp`) to track and manipulate the stack during program execution.

The value stored in the `ss` register is a 16-bit segment selector that consists of an index into the GDT or LDT and privilege level bits. The exact format and interpretation of the segment selector depend on the operating mode and memory model used.

During context switches or interrupt handling, the value of the `ss` register is saved and restored to ensure the proper stack segment is used when switching between execution contexts.

## What Happens Behind the Scenes of the x86-interrupt Calling Convention?

The `x86-interrupt` calling convention is a powerful abstraction that hides almost all of the messy details of the exception handling process. Here is a brief overview of the things that the `x86-interrupt` calling convention takes care of:

- **Retrieving the arguments:** Most calling conventions expect that the arguments are passed in registers. This is not possible for exception handlers since we must not overwrite any register values before backing them up on the stack. Instead, the `x86-interrupt` calling convention is aware that the arguments already lie on the stack at a specific offset.

- **Returning using `iretq`:** Since the interrupt stack frame completely differs from stack frames of normal function calls, we can’t return from handler functions through the normal `ret` instruction. Instead, the `iretq` instruction must be used.

- **Handling the error code:** The error code, which is pushed for some exceptions, makes things much more complex. It changes the stack alignment and needs to be popped off the stack before returning. The `x86-interrupt` calling convention handles all that complexity.

- **Aligning the stack:** Some instructions (especially SSE instructions) require a 16-byte stack alignment. The CPU ensures this alignment whenever an exception occurs, but for some exceptions it destroys it again later when it pushes an error code. The `x86-interrupt` calling convention takes care of this by realigning the stack in this case.


## How to initialize a IDT?

To create a new InterruptDescriptorTable in our kernel, we first need to create a new interrupts module in `src/interrupts.rs`. Then, we initialize a new `InterruptDescriptorTable` object inside an `init_idt` function.

Here is an example:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

pub mod interrupts;

// in src/interrupts.rs

use x86_64::structures::idt::InterruptDescriptorTable;

pub fn init_idt() {
    let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
}
```

This example creates a new interrupts module in the `lib.rs` file, and then uses the `InterruptDescriptorTable` struct from the `x86_64` crate to create a new IDT in the `init_idt` function.

## How to handle a breakpoint?

In order to handle breakpoint exceptions, we can create a simple `breakpoint_handler` function and add it to our IDT. This handler will simply print a message and the interrupt stack frame when a breakpoint exception is thrown.

Here is an example:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

use x86_64::structures::idt::{InterruptDescriptorTable, InterruptStackFrame};
use crate::println;

pub fn init_idt() {
    let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
    idt.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
}

extern "x86-interrupt" fn breakpoint_handler(
    stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    println!("EXCEPTION: BREAKPOINT\n{:#?}", stack_frame);
}
```

In this example, the `breakpoint_handler` function is defined with the `x86-interrupt` calling convention, which means it will be used to handle interrupts. This function simply prints out a message along with the interrupt stack frame whenever a breakpoint exception occurs.

## Why do I receive an error when trying to use the x86-interrupt calling convention?

You must explicitly enable it in order to use it in your code.

When you try to use it without enabling it, you may receive an error similar to this:

```
error[E0658]: x86-interrupt ABI is experimental and subject to change (see issue #40180)
  --> src/main.rs:53:1
   |
53 | / extern "x86-interrupt" fn breakpoint_handler(stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame) {
54 | |     println!("EXCEPTION: BREAKPOINT\n{:#?}", stack_frame);
55 | | }
   | |_^
   |
   = help: add #![feature(abi_x86_interrupt)] to the crate attributes to enable
```

To resolve this, you can add the `#![feature(abi_x86_interrupt)]` attribute at the top of your `lib.rs` file, as suggested in the error message.

Here's how:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

#![feature(abi_x86_interrupt)]

pub mod interrupts;
```

With this attribute added, the `x86-interrupt` calling convention should work as expected.

## How do we load the Interrupt Descriptor Table (IDT) to the CPU?

To allow the CPU to use our IDT, we need to load it using the `lidt` instruction. The `InterruptDescriptorTable` struct of the `x86_64` crate has a method called `load` for this.

Here's the code snippet:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

pub fn init_idt() {
    let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
    idt.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
    idt.load();
}
```

In this code, `idt.load()` loads the IDT to the CPU.

## Why do we get a lifetime error when we attempt to load the IDT?

When you attempt to load the IDT as shown in the previous section, you might encounter the following error:

```
error: `idt` does not live long enough
  --> src/interrupts/mod.rs:43:5
   |
43 |     idt.load();
   |     ^^^ does not live long enough
44 | }
   | - borrowed value only lives until here
   |
   = note: borrowed value must be valid for the static lifetime...
```

This error occurs because the `load` method expects a `&'static self`, i.e., a reference that is valid for the entire runtime of the program. The IDT is being accessed by the CPU on every interrupt until a different IDT is loaded. Thus, using a shorter lifetime than `'static` could lead to use-after-free bugs.

In this case, the `idt` is created on the stack and it is only valid inside the `init` function. After the function ends, the stack memory is reused for other functions, which could lead to the CPU interpreting random stack memory as IDT. This potential bug is prevented at compile time by Rust, which requires the IDT to have a `'static` lifetime.

## How do we fix the lifetime error for the IDT?

To fix this lifetime error, we need to store the IDT in a place where it has a `'static` lifetime. One way to do this is to store it as a `static` variable:

```rust
static IDT: InterruptDescriptorTable = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();

pub fn init_idt() {
    IDT.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
    IDT.load();
}
```

However, the problem with this solution is that static variables are immutable, so we can't modify the breakpoint entry from our `init` function. This problem could be solved by using a `static mut`:

```rust
static mut IDT: InterruptDescriptorTable = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();

pub fn init_idt() {
    unsafe {
        IDT.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
        IDT.load();
    }
}
```

This compiles without errors, but it's not idiomatic. `static mut` is prone to data races, and thus requires an `unsafe` block for each access.

## How can we avoid using `unsafe` with a static IDT?

To avoid using `unsafe`, we can use the `lazy_static` macro. This macro initializes a static variable when it's referenced for the first time. This allows for complex initialization and reading of runtime values.

Here's how we can use it:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

use lazy_static::lazy_static;

lazy_static! {
    static ref IDT: InterruptDescriptorTable = {
        let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
        idt.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
        idt
    };
}

pub fn init_idt() {
    IDT.load();
}
```

This solution doesn't require any `unsafe` blocks. The `lazy_static!` macro uses `unsafe` behind the scenes, but it abstracts it away in a safe interface.

## How do we make exceptions work in our kernel?

The last step to make exceptions work in our kernel is to call the `init_idt` function from our `main.rs`. Instead of calling it directly, we introduce a general `init` function in our `lib.rs`:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

pub fn init() {
    interrupts::init_idt();
}
```

With this function, we have a central place for initialization routines that can be shared between the different `_start` functions in our `main.rs`, `lib.rs`, and integration tests.

Then, we can update the `_start` function of our `main.rs` to call `init` and then trigger a breakpoint exception:

```rust
// in src/main.rs

#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn _start() -> ! {
    println!("Hello World{}", "!");

    blog_os::init(); // new

    // invoke a breakpoint exception
    x86_64::instructions::interrupts::int3(); // new

    // as before
    #[cfg(test)]
    test_main();

    println!("It did not crash!");
    loop {}
}
```

When we run this in QEMU (using `cargo run`), we see an output confirming that the CPU successfully invoked our breakpoint handler, which printed the message and then returned back to the `_start` function. This means our exception handling mechanism is functioning properly.

## How can we add a test to ensure our exception handling is working?

To test that our exception handling continues to work, we first update the `_start` function to also call `init`:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

/// Entry point for `cargo test`
#[cfg(test)]
#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn _start() -> ! {
    init();      // new
    test_main();
    loop {}
}
```

Remember that this `_start` function is used when running `cargo test --lib`, since Rust tests the `lib.rs` independently of the `main.rs`. We need to call `init` here to set up an IDT before running the tests.

Next, we create a `test_breakpoint_exception` test:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

#[test_case]
fn test_breakpoint_exception() {
    // invoke a breakpoint exception
    x86_64::instructions::interrupts::int3();
}
```

In this test, we invoke the `int3` function to trigger a breakpoint exception. By checking that the execution continues afterward, we verify that our breakpoint handler is working correctly.

## How do we run the test?

You can run this new test by using `cargo test` (for all tests) or `cargo test --lib` (only for tests of `lib.rs` and its modules). When the test runs successfully, you should see the following in the output:

```
blog_os::interrupts::test_breakpoint_exception...	[ok]
```

## What if we want to understand the underlying details of exception handling?

While the `x86-interrupt` calling convention and the `InterruptDescriptorTable` type make the exception handling process relatively straightforward, they might feel a bit "magical" if you are interested in understanding the underlying details.

If you are interested in the gory details of exception handling, there is a series titled "Handling Exceptions with Naked Functions" that shows how to handle exceptions without the `x86-interrupt` calling convention, and also creates its own IDT type. Note, however, that these posts are based on the first edition of this blog and might be out of date.