## What are Interrupts and how do they work?

Interrupts are a mechanism used by attached hardware devices to notify the CPU of certain events. They are a more efficient way of handling device events than having the kernel continuously check, or poll, the device for updates. With interrupts, the kernel can immediately respond when a device event occurs, allowing faster reaction times and reduced overhead.

### What are the main differences between Interrupts and Exceptions?

While exceptions are synchronous and occur in response to certain instructions, hardware interrupts are asynchronous. They can occur at any time and are completely independent of the code being executed. This introduces a form of concurrency in our kernel and potential concurrency-related bugs. However, Rust's strict ownership model helps mitigate these issues.

## What does the PIC do?

The Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC) is a piece of hardware that is used to manage hardware interrupts in a computer system. It was designed to handle up to 8 hardware interrupts in an efficient manner. However, because modern computer systems often have more than 8 hardware devices, two PICs are usually used together in what is known as a "cascaded" configuration, enabling the handling of up to 15 hardware interrupts.

The main roles of the PIC are:

1. **Interrupt handling**: The PIC receives interrupt requests (IRQs) from hardware devices and sends them to the CPU. The CPU can't process these IRQs immediately, especially if it's already handling another interrupt, so the PIC also handles interrupt queuing.

```
                                    ____________             _____
               Timer ------------> |            |           |     |
               Keyboard ---------> | Interrupt  |---------> | CPU |
               Other Hardware ---> | Controller |           |_____|
               Etc. -------------> |____________|
```

2. **Interrupt prioritization**: Since it can handle multiple interrupts, the PIC also manages the priority of these interrupts. Some interrupts are more urgent than others, and the PIC can ensure that higher-priority interrupts are sent to the CPU first.

3. **Masking interrupts**: The PIC allows certain interrupts to be temporarily disabled or "masked". This is useful in situations where an interrupt is causing a problem or where certain interrupts should be ignored.

In modern computer systems, the functionality of the PIC has been largely replaced by more advanced interrupt controllers like the Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC) and the Intel APIC Architecture (x2APIC), but the PIC is still used in some contexts, particularly in older or simpler systems. 

In terms of interacting with the PIC in code, typically an Operating System might interact with the PIC to change interrupt masks (enable or disable certain interrupts), or to send End of Interrupt (EOI) signals. For instance, in x86 architecture, after an ISR (Interrupt Service Routine) has finished executing, it needs to send an EOI to the PIC to let it know that it's ready for the next interrupt.

## What is the Intel 8259 PIC?

The Intel 8259 is a Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC) that was introduced in 1976. Although it has been largely replaced by the newer APIC, its interface is still supported on current systems for backward compatibility reasons. The 8259 PIC is easier to set up than the APIC, making it suitable for an introduction to interrupts.

### How does the Intel 8259 PIC work?

The 8259 PIC has eight interrupt lines and several lines for communicating with the CPU. Typical systems from that era had two instances of the 8259 PIC, one primary and one secondary PIC, connected to one of the interrupt lines of the primary:

```ascii
                     ____________                          ____________
Real Time Clock --> |            |   Timer -------------> |            |
ACPI -------------> |            |   Keyboard-----------> |            |      _____
Available --------> | Secondary  |----------------------> | Primary    |     |     |
Available --------> | Interrupt  |   Serial Port 2 -----> | Interrupt  |---> | CPU |
Mouse ------------> | Controller |   Serial Port 1 -----> | Controller |     |_____|
Co-Processor -----> |            |   Parallel Port 2/3 -> |            |
Primary ATA ------> |            |   Floppy disk -------> |            |
Secondary ATA ----> |____________|   Parallel Port 1----> |____________|
```

Each controller can be configured through two I/O ports, one "command" port and one "data" port. For the primary controller, these ports are `0x20` (command) and `0x21` (data). For the secondary controller, they are `0xa0` (command) and `0xa1` (data).

### How are two the PIC's chained together
In the x86 architecture, two 8259 Programmable Interrupt Controllers (PICs) are often chained together to extend the number of available interrupt lines. The primary PIC is responsible for managing the lower-numbered interrupt lines (IRQ 0 to IRQ 7), while the secondary PIC handles the higher-numbered interrupt lines (IRQ 8 to IRQ 15).

The process of chaining two PICs involves connecting one of the interrupt lines from the primary PIC to one of the interrupt lines on the secondary PIC. This connection is typically done using a specific interrupt line called the "cascade" or "IRQ 2" line.

Here's a high-level overview of the steps involved in chaining the two PICs together:

1. Connect the Cascade Line: The primary PIC's cascade line (IRQ 2) is connected to one of the interrupt lines on the secondary PIC. This connection establishes communication between the primary and secondary PICs.
    
2. Configure the Primary PIC: The primary PIC, responsible for managing IRQs 0 to 7, is already present and configured. The primary PIC's command port is typically accessed through I/O ports `0x20` (command) and `0x21` (data).
    
3. Configure the Secondary PIC: The secondary PIC, which handles IRQs 8 to 15, needs to be configured as well. The secondary PIC's command port is typically accessed through I/O ports `0xa0` (command) and `0xa1` (data).
    
4. Inform the Primary PIC about the Cascade: The primary PIC must be informed about the connection to the secondary PIC via the cascade line. This is achieved by sending a command to the primary PIC that enables the cascade mode. The command involves setting specific bits in the command byte to enable cascading.
    
5. Set Interrupt Offset: To avoid interrupt conflicts between the primary and secondary PICs, the interrupt offsets need to be properly set. The primary PIC's interrupt offset is typically set to `0x20`, indicating that it handles IRQs 0 to 7. The secondary PIC's interrupt offset is set to a value corresponding to the interrupt line it is connected to on the primary PIC (e.g., IRQ 2).
    
By chaining the two PICs together and configuring them accordingly, the system can effectively handle a total of 16 interrupt lines, expanding the interrupt handling capabilities beyond what a single PIC can provide.

### How can the Intel 8259 PIC be Implemented in Rust?

The default configuration of the PICs sends interrupt vector numbers in the range of `0–15` to the CPU. Since these numbers are already occupied by CPU exceptions, we need to remap the PIC interrupts to different numbers. Typically, the range of `32–47` is chosen, as these are the first free numbers after the 32 exception slots.

In Rust, you can use the `pic8259` crate for the configuration. Add it as a dependency in your `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
[dependencies]
pic8259 = "0.10.1"
```

Here is an example of how you can use it:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

use pic8259::ChainedPics;
use spin;

pub const PIC_1_OFFSET: u8 = 32;
pub const PIC_2_OFFSET: u8 = PIC_1_OFFSET + 8;

pub static PICS: spin::Mutex<ChainedPics> =
    spin::Mutex::new(unsafe { ChainedPics::new(PIC_1_OFFSET, PIC_2_OFFSET) });
```

In the above example, we're setting the offsets for the PICs to the range `32–47`. We wrap the `ChainedPics` struct in a `Mutex` to get safe mutable access, which we need in the next step. The `ChainedPics::new` function is `unsafe` because wrong offsets could cause undefined behavior.

After this, you can initialize the 8259 PIC in your `init` function:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

pub fn init() {
    gdt::init();
    interrupts::init_idt();
    unsafe { interrupts::PICS.lock().initialize() }; // new
}
```

Here, we use the `initialize` function to perform the PIC initialization. This function is also `unsafe` because it can cause undefined behavior if the PIC is misconfigured.

## What are the steps to enable interrupts in Rust?

In Rust, you can enable interrupts in the CPU configuration so that the CPU listens to the interrupt controller and receives interrupts. Here is how to do it:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

pub fn init() {
    gdt::init();
    interrupts::init_idt();
    unsafe { interrupts::PICS.lock().initialize() };
    x86_64::instructions::interrupts::enable();     // new
}
```

In the above code snippet, `interrupts::enable` function of the `x86_64` crate executes the special `sti` instruction ("set interrupts") to enable external interrupts.

After enabling interrupts, you might experience a double fault. This is because the hardware timer, by default, is enabled. So, you start receiving timer interrupts as soon as you enable interrupts. If a handler function for this interrupt hasn't been defined, your double fault handler is invoked.

## How can you handle timer interrupts in Rust?

To handle timer interrupts, you need to create a handler function for it. The timer uses line 0 of the primary PIC, arriving at the CPU as interrupt 32 (0 + offset 32). Instead of hardcoding this index, you can store it in an `InterruptIndex` enum.

Here is how you can define this enum and add a handler function for the timer interrupt:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, Copy)]
#[repr(u8)]
pub enum InterruptIndex {
    Timer = PIC_1_OFFSET,
}

impl InterruptIndex {
    fn as_u8(self) -> u8 {
        self as u8
    }

    fn as_usize(self) -> usize {
        usize::from(self.as_u8())
    }
}

// Adding the handler function for the timer interrupt:

use crate::print;

lazy_static! {
    static ref IDT: InterruptDescriptorTable = {
        let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
        idt.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
        // ...
        idt[InterruptIndex::Timer.as_usize()]
            .set_handler_fn(timer_interrupt_handler); // new

        idt
    };
}

extern "x86-interrupt" fn timer_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    print!(".");
}
```

## Why is the 'end of interrupt' signal necessary?

The 'end of interrupt' (EOI) signal tells the interrupt controller that the interrupt has been processed, and the system is ready to receive the next interrupt. Without sending this EOI signal, the PIC would think you are still processing the first timer interrupt and will patiently wait for the EOI signal before sending the next interrupt.

To send the EOI signal in Rust, you can use the static `PICS` struct:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

extern "x86-interrupt" fn timer_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    print!(".");

    unsafe {
        PICS.lock()
            .notify_end_of_interrupt(InterruptIndex::Timer.as_u8());
    }
}
```

In the above code snippet, the `notify_end_of_interrupt` method figures out whether the primary or secondary PIC sent the interrupt and then uses the command and data ports to send an EOI signal to the respective controllers. If the secondary PIC sent the interrupt, both PICs need to be notified because the secondary PIC is connected to an input line of the primary PIC. The argument is the numeric value of the interrupt vector. In this case, `InterruptIndex::Timer.as_u8()` is used to get the numeric value of the `Timer` interrupt vector.

It is important to use the correct interrupt vector number. Incorrect usage might accidentally delete an important unsent interrupt or cause your system to hang. This is why this function is marked as `unsafe`.

## How can a deadlock in the kernel be fixed?

To avoid the deadlock in the kernel, interrupts can be disabled as long as the `Mutex` is locked. This can be achieved by using the `without_interrupts` function from the `x86_64::instructions::interrupts` module, which takes a closure and executes it in an interrupt-free environment. 

For example, within the `_print` function in `src/vga_buffer.rs`:

```rust
// in src/vga_buffer.rs

/// Prints the given formatted string to the VGA text buffer
/// through the global `WRITER` instance.
#[doc(hidden)]
pub fn _print(args: fmt::Arguments) {
    use core::fmt::Write;
    use x86_64::instructions::interrupts;   // new

    interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {     // new
        WRITER.lock().write_fmt(args).unwrap();
    });
}
```

This ensures that no interrupt can occur as long as the `Mutex` is locked. If the kernel is run now, it continues without hanging.

The same modification can be applied to the serial printing function to prevent deadlocks there as well:

```rust
// in src/serial.rs

#[doc(hidden)]
pub fn _print(args: ::core::fmt::Arguments) {
    use core::fmt::Write;
    use x86_64::instructions::interrupts;       // new

    interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {         // new
        SERIAL1
            .lock()
            .write_fmt(args)
            .expect("Printing to serial failed");
    });
}
```

However, it's worth noting that disabling interrupts should not be a general solution to concurrency issues. Disabling interrupts increases the worst-case interrupt latency - the time until the system reacts to an interrupt - and therefore, interrupts should only be disabled for a short time.

### What might happen if you don't disable interrupts?
If you don't use `interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {...})` to wrap around the block of code where the `Mutex` is locked, it may lead to a potential deadlock under the following circumstances:

1. You lock the mutex with `WRITER.lock()` to start a critical section of your code.

2. While the mutex is still locked, an interrupt occurs. 

3. The interrupt handler is invoked. If this handler also tries to lock the `Mutex` (for instance, to write to the VGA buffer), it will find that the `Mutex` is already locked.

4. The interrupt handler now waits for the `Mutex` to be unlocked. But this can't happen until the interrupt handler returns, as the original code that locked the `Mutex` was interrupted and is not currently running. This results in a deadlock.

Here's what the scenario would look like in terms of the execution order:

- `WRITER.lock()` is called in your main code, locking the mutex.
- An interrupt occurs, causing an immediate context switch to the interrupt handler.
- The interrupt handler calls `WRITER.lock()`, but the `Mutex` is already locked, so the interrupt handler is blocked waiting for the `Mutex` to be unlocked.
- However, the code that can unlock the `Mutex` (i.e., your main code) can't run until the interrupt handler finishes, which won't happen because it's waiting for the `Mutex`.

By using `interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {...})`, you're disabling interrupts for the duration of the critical section where the `Mutex` is locked. This ensures that an interrupt can't occur and attempt to lock the already-locked `Mutex` during this time, thus preventing the deadlock scenario.

In other words, `interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {...})` guarantees that once you lock the `Mutex`, no other code can attempt to lock the `Mutex` until you're done with it and it has been unlocked. This is essential for safe concurrent access to shared resources in a multithreaded/interrupt-driven environment.

### Why is a closure passed in?
In Rust, closures are used for defining pieces of code that can be passed as values. The `interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {...})` function is designed to take a closure as an argument because it needs a way to know which piece of code to run with interrupts disabled.

When you pass a closure to `without_interrupts`, you're specifying the code that you want to run in an interrupt-free context. The `without_interrupts` function takes this closure, disables interrupts, then calls the closure (which runs the code you specified), and finally re-enables interrupts once the closure's code has finished executing.

Here's a simplified view of what `without_interrupts` might look like:

```rust
pub fn without_interrupts<F, R>(f: F) -> R
where
    F: FnOnce() -> R,
{
    disable_interrupts();
    let result = f(); // Execute the closure's code with interrupts disabled.
    enable_interrupts();
    result
}
```

In this hypothetical implementation, `F` is the type of the closure you pass in, and `R` is the type of the value that the closure returns. The `FnOnce() -> R` bound indicates that `F` is a closure that takes no arguments and returns a value of type `R`.

The closure is used here to allow you to conveniently specify any code that you want to run with interrupts disabled, regardless of what that code does or what kind of value it produces. This is a common use case for closures in Rust: they let you write flexible functions that can operate on many different kinds of behavior, as specified by the caller of the function.


## What is the race condition in the `test_println_output` test and how can it be fixed?

The `test_println_output` test may fail due to a race condition between the test and the timer handler. The test prints a string to the VGA buffer and checks the output by manually iterating over the `buffer_chars` array. However, the timer interrupt handler might run between the `println` and the reading of the screen characters, leading to a test failure.

This isn't a dangerous data race (which Rust prevents at compile time) but can cause failures in the test. To resolve this, the `WRITER` must be kept locked for the entire duration of the test to prevent the timer handler from writing a `.` to the screen in between.

The fixed test would look like this:

```rust
// in src/vga_buffer.rs

#[test_case]
fn test_println_output() {
    use core::fmt::Write;
    use x86_64::instructions::interrupts;

    let s = "Some test string that fits on a single line";
    interrupts::without_interrupts(|| {
        let mut writer = WRITER.lock();
        writeln!(writer, "\n{}", s).expect("writeln failed");
        for (i, c) in s.chars().enumerate() {
            let screen_char = writer.buffer.chars[BUFFER_HEIGHT - 2][i].read();
            assert_eq!(char::from(screen_char.ascii_character), c);
        }
    });
}
```

The changes are as follows:

1. The writer is kept locked for the entire test using the `lock()` method explicitly. Instead of `println`, the `writeln` macro is used that allows printing to an already locked writer.

2. To avoid another deadlock, interrupts are disabled for the duration of the test. Otherwise, the test might be interrupted while the writer is still locked

3. Since the timer interrupt handler can still run before the test, an additional newline `\n` is printed before the string `s`. This helps avoid test failure when the timer handler has already printed some `.` characters to the current line.

With these changes, `cargo test` can deterministically succeed again.

Race conditions, due to their non-deterministic nature, can be difficult to debug. This race condition is harmless and only caused a test failure. However, other race conditions could have much more severe consequences. Thankfully, Rust's safety guarantees prevent data races, the most serious class of race conditions that can lead to undefined behavior, system crashes, or silent memory corruptions.

## The hlt Instruction

### What is the `hlt` Instruction and Why is it Useful?

The `hlt` instruction is a special CPU instruction that stands for "halt". This instruction halts the CPU until the next interrupt is fired. This is useful because it allows the CPU to enter a lower-energy state when there is no work to do, saving power and resources. 

### How to Use `hlt` Instruction in a Kernel Loop?

In Rust, the `hlt` instruction can be accessed through the `x86_64` crate. The function `instructions::hlt` is a wrapper around this assembly instruction. Here is an example of how to use it to create an energy-efficient endless loop:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs
pub fn hlt_loop() -> ! {
    loop {
        x86_64::instructions::hlt();
    }
}
```

This function can be used to replace endless loops in our `_start` and `panic` functions. Here is how you would use it:

```rust
// in src/main.rs
#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn _start() -> ! {
    […]

    println!("It did not crash!");
    blog_os::hlt_loop();            // new
}

#[cfg(not(test))]
#[panic_handler]
fn panic(info: &PanicInfo) -> ! {
    println!("{}", info);
    blog_os::hlt_loop();            // new
}
```

And also in `lib.rs`:

```rust
// in src/lib.rs

/// Entry point for `cargo test`
#[cfg(test)]
#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn _start() -> ! {
    init();
    test_main();
    hlt_loop();         // new
}

pub fn test_panic_handler(info: &PanicInfo) -> ! {
    serial_println!("[failed]\n");
    serial_println!("Error: {}\n", info);
    exit_qemu(QemuExitCode::Failed);
    hlt_loop();         // new
}
```

When you run your kernel in QEMU, you will notice much lower CPU usage because the CPU enters a lower-energy state when there is no work to do.

## Keyboard Input

### How to Add Support for Keyboard Input?

To add support for keyboard input, we need to handle interrupts from the keyboard. The keyboard, like the hardware timer, is enabled by default and when you press a key, it sends an interrupt to the Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC), which then forwards it to the CPU. We need to add a handler function for the keyboard interrupt in our kernel code.

Note: We only describe how to handle PS/2 keyboards (IBM's personal system 2 PC) here, not USB keyboards. However, the mainboard emulates USB keyboards as PS/2 devices to support older software, so we can safely ignore USB keyboards until we have USB support in our kernel.

Here is how you would add a handler function for the keyboard interrupt:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

#[derive(Debug, Clone, Copy)]
#[repr(u8)]
pub enum InterruptIndex {
    Timer = PIC_1_OFFSET,
    Keyboard, // new
}

lazy_static! {
    static ref IDT: InterruptDescriptorTable = {
        let mut idt = InterruptDescriptorTable::new();
        idt.breakpoint.set_handler_fn(breakpoint_handler);
        […]
        // new
        idt[InterruptIndex::Keyboard.as_usize()]
            .set_handler_fn(keyboard_interrupt_handler);

        idt
    };
}

extern "x86-interrupt" fn keyboard_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    print!("k");

    unsafe {
        PICS.lock()
	        .notify_end_of_interrupt(InterruptIndex::Keyboard.as_u8());
    }
}
```

In this code, the keyboard uses line 1 of the primary PIC, which means it arrives at the CPU as interrupt 33 (1 + offset 32). We add this index as a new `Keyboard` variant to the `InterruptIndex` enum. In the interrupt handler, we print a `k` and send the end of interrupt signal to the interrupt controller.

### Why Doesn't the Keyboard Interrupt Handler Print More Than One Key Press?

When you run the above code, you'll notice that a `k` only appears on the screen for the first key you press. Even if you continue to press keys, no more `k`'s appear. This happens because the keyboard controller won’t send another interrupt until we have read the so-called scancode of the pressed key. 

### What are Scancodes and How to Read Them?

Scancodes are unique codes that are sent by a keyboard to represent each key press/release. To find out which key was pressed, we need to query the keyboard controller. This is done by reading from the data port of the PS/2 controller, which is the I/O port with the number 0x60:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

extern "x86-interrupt" fn keyboard_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    use x86_64::instructions::port::Port;

    let mut port = Port::new(0x60);
    let scancode: u8 = unsafe { port.read() };
    print!("{}", scancode);

    unsafe {
        PICS.lock()
            .notify_end_of_interrupt(InterruptIndex::Keyboard.as_u8());
    }
}
```

In this code, the `Port` type of the `x86_64` crate is used to read a byte from the keyboard’s data port. This byte is the scancode and it represents the key press/release. For now, we simply print the scancode to the screen. As you press keys, you will see the corresponding scancodes appearing on the screen. 

### How Do Scancodes Relate to Actual Key Actions?

Scancodes are unique codes generated by a keyboard for each key press or release. For example, pressing a key generates a different scancode than releasing it. The pattern of scancodes helps us to determine the specific key actions.

As an illustration, consider slowly typing "123". We see that adjacent keys have adjacent scancodes. But the translation of the scancodes to the actual key actions requires a specific decoding process, which is not covered here.

## Interpreting the Scancodes

### What are Scancode Sets?

Scancode sets are different standards mapping between scancodes and keys. These standards date back to the keyboards of early IBM computers: the IBM XT, the IBM 3270 PC, and the IBM AT. Today, most keyboards can be configured to emulate any of the three sets.

### What Scancode Set Do PS/2 Keyboards Use by Default?

By default, PS/2 keyboards emulate scancode set 1 (“XT”). In this set, the lower 7 bits of a scancode byte define the key, and the most significant bit defines whether it’s a press (“0”) or a release (“1”). Keys not present on the original IBM XT keyboard, such as the enter key on the keypad, generate two scancodes in succession: a 0xe0 escape byte and then a byte representing the key.

### How Can You Translate Scancodes to Keys in Rust?

To translate scancodes to keys, you can use a match statement in Rust:

```rust
// in src/interrupts.rs

extern "x86-interrupt" fn keyboard_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    use x86_64::instructions::port::Port;

    let mut port = Port::new(0x60);
    let scancode: u8 = unsafe { port.read() };

    // new
    let key = match scancode {
        0x02 => Some('1'),
        0x03 => Some('2'),
        0x04 => Some('3'),
        0x05 => Some('4'),
        0x06 => Some('5'),
        0x07 => Some('6'),
        0x08 => Some('7'),
        0x09 => Some('8'),
        0x0a => Some('9'),
        0x0b => Some('0'),
        _ => None,
    };
    if let Some(key) = key {
        print!("{}", key);
    }

    unsafe {
        PICS.lock()
            .notify_end_of_interrupt(InterruptIndex::Keyboard.as_u8());
    }
}
```

In this code, keypresses of the number keys 0-9 are translated and all other keys are ignored. A match statement is used to assign a character or None to each scancode. Then, `if let` is used to destructure the optional key.

## Using the `pc-keyboard` Crate to Handle Scancodes

### What is the `pc-keyboard` Crate?

The `pc-keyboard` crate is a Rust library for translating scancodes of scancode sets 1 and 2. This eliminates the need to manually handle this translation.

### How Can You Use the `pc-keyboard` Crate?

Firstly, you need to add it to your `Cargo.toml` file:

```toml
# in Cargo.toml

[dependencies]
pc-keyboard = "0.5.0"
```

Then, you can use it to rewrite your keyboard interrupt handler:

```rust
// in/src/interrupts.rs

extern "x86-interrupt" fn keyboard_interrupt_handler(
    _stack_frame: InterruptStackFrame)
{
    use pc_keyboard::{layouts, DecodedKey, HandleControl, Keyboard, ScancodeSet1};
    use spin::Mutex;
    use x86_64::instructions::port::Port;

    lazy_static! {
        static ref KEYBOARD: Mutex<Keyboard<layouts::Us104Key, ScancodeSet1>> =
            Mutex::new(Keyboard::new(layouts::Us104Key, ScancodeSet1,
                HandleControl::Ignore)
            );
   

 }

    let mut keyboard = KEYBOARD.lock();
    let mut port = Port::new(0x60);

    let scancode: u8 = unsafe { port.read() };
    if let Ok(Some(key_event)) = keyboard.add_byte(scancode) {
        if let Some(key) = keyboard.process_keyevent(key_event) {
            match key {
                DecodedKey::Unicode(character) => print!("{}", character),
                DecodedKey::RawKey(key) => print!("{:?}", key),
            }
        }
    }

    unsafe {
        PICS.lock()
            .notify_end_of_interrupt(InterruptIndex::Keyboard.as_u8());
    }
}
```

In this code, a static `Keyboard` object protected by a `Mutex` is created using the `lazy_static` macro. The `Keyboard` is initialized with a US keyboard layout and the scancode set 1. The `HandleControl` parameter allows mapping ctrl+[a-z] to the Unicode characters U+0001 through U+001A. The `Ignore` option is used to handle the ctrl like normal keys.

The `add_byte` method is used to translate the scancode into an `Option<KeyEvent>`. The `KeyEvent` contains the key which caused the event and whether it was a press or release event. The `process_keyevent` method interprets this key event, translating it to a character if possible.

## Configuring the Keyboard

### Is it Possible to Configure Aspects of a PS/2 Keyboard?

Yes, it's possible to configure some aspects of a PS/2 keyboard, such as which scancode set it should use. While we won't cover the detailed configuration here, the OSDev Wiki provides a comprehensive overview of possible configuration commands.