## What are the goals of a Virtual Memory (VM) system?

There are three primary goals for a virtual memory system in an operating system: transparency, efficiency, and protection.

### Transparency

Transparency in a VM system refers to the fact that the operating system should implement virtual memory in a way that is invisible to the running program. The running program shouldn't be aware of the fact that memory is virtualized; it should behave as if it has its own private physical memory. This invisibility is maintained by the OS and the hardware working together to multiplex memory among many different jobs.

### Efficiency

Efficiency in a VM system means that the operating system should strive to make the virtualization as efficient as possible. This includes time efficiency - the virtualization should not significantly slow down the program execution. It also includes space efficiency - the OS should not use too much memory for structures needed to support virtualization. Implementing time-efficient virtualization often relies on hardware support, including features such as Translation Lookaside Buffers (TLBs), which we will discuss later.

### Protection

Protection in a VM system means that the operating system should ensure that processes are protected from one another, as well as protecting the OS itself from the processes. When a process performs a load, a store, or an instruction fetch, it should not be able to access or affect the memory contents of any other process or the OS itself (i.e., anything outside its address space). This goal enables the delivery of the property of isolation among processes.

## What is the Principle of Isolation?

The Principle of Isolation is a crucial concept in building reliable systems. This principle states that if two entities are properly isolated from one another, one can fail without affecting the other. In the context of operating systems, they strive to isolate processes from each other to prevent one from harming the other. By using memory isolation, the OS further ensures that running programs cannot affect the operation of the underlying OS. Some modern OS’s take isolation even further by walling off pieces of the OS from other pieces, which may provide greater reliability than typical monolithic kernel designs.
