```toc
```
### How is virtual memory organized?

Conceptually, a virtual memory is organized as an array of N contiguous byte-size cells stored on disk. Each byte has a unique virtual address that serves as an index into the array. The contents of the array on disk are cached in main memory.

### What are virtual pages?

The virtual memory is partitioned into fixed-size blocks called virtual pages (VPs), each of which is P = <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">2^P bytes in size</mark>. Similarly, physical memory is partitioned into physical pages (PPs), also P bytes in size.

### What are the three disjoint subsets of virtual pages?

At any point in time, the set of virtual pages is partitioned into three disjoint subsets:

1.  Unallocated. Pages that have not yet been allocated (or created) by the VM system. Unallocated blocks do not have any data associated with them, and thus do not occupy any space on disk.
2.  Cached. Allocated pages that are currently cached in physical memory.
3.  Uncached. Allocated pages that are not cached in physical memory.

### How does a virtual memory system use main memory as a cache?

The virtual memory system uses main memory as a cache by partitioning the virtual memory into virtual pages and the physical memory into physical pages. Virtual pages that are currently in use are cached in physical memory, while the rest of the virtual pages are stored on disk. The virtual memory system ensures that the most frequently used virtual pages are cached in physical memory for quick access. This helps to provide the illusion of a large, contiguous memory space for each process, even if the physical memory is fragmented or sparse.


<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">pink</mark>
In the context of virtual memory, "P" represents the size of a page in bytes, as a power of 2. The virtual memory is partitioned into fixed-size blocks called virtual pages (VPs), each of which is P = 2^P bytes in size. Similarly, physical memory is partitioned into physical pages (PPs), also P bytes in size.

The value of P in virtual memory is determined by system architects and engineers based on trade-off considerations. The goal is to choose a value that balances the need for memory efficiency and the overhead of managing the virtual memory system.

A larger value of P means that each page is larger, and thus fewer pages are needed to represent a given amount of memory. <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">This can improve memory efficiency</mark> by reducing the overhead of managing the page table and reducing the number of page faults. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">On the other hand</mark>, a larger value of P also means that the pages are larger and less flexible, which can result in more wasted space and increased fragmentation.

A smaller value of P means that each page is smaller, and thus more pages are needed to represent a given amount of memory. This increases the overhead of managing the page table and can result in more page faults. On the other hand, a smaller value of P also means that the pages are smaller and more flexible, which can reduce wasted space and fragmentation.

An example of determining the value of P in virtual memory is as follows:

Suppose that we are designing a virtual memory system for a computer with 4GB of physical memory and a disk with a capacity of 500GB. The goal is to choose a value of P that balances memory efficiency and overhead.

One approach would be to choose a large value of P, such as 16 or 20, which would result in pages that are 64KB or 1MB in size, respectively. This would reduce the overhead of managing the page table and reduce the number of page faults, but might result in significant wasted space and fragmentation.

Another approach would be to choose a smaller value of P, such as 8 or 10, which would result in pages that are 256B or 1KB in size, respectively. This would increase the overhead of managing the page table and increase the number of page faults, but would reduce wasted space and fragmentation.

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Red</mark>
When the value of P is larger, each page is larger and thus fewer pages are needed to represent a given amount of memory. This can improve memory efficiency in two ways:

1.  Reduced overhead of managing the page table: The page table is a data structure used by the virtual memory system to map virtual pages to physical pages. Each entry in the page table represents a single virtual page and maps it to a physical page. If the value of P is larger, each virtual page is larger, and thus fewer entries are needed in the page table to represent the same amount of memory. This reduces the overhead of managing the page table, as fewer entries need to be created, updated, and searched.
    
2.  Reduced number of page faults: A page fault occurs when a virtual page that is not currently cached in physical memory is accessed. The virtual memory system must then bring the page from disk into physical memory, which can cause a performance penalty. If the value of P is larger, each page is larger, and thus fewer pages are needed to represent the same amount of memory. This reduces the number of page faults, as more memory can be cached in physical memory and fewer pages need to be brought in from disk.

By reducing the overhead of managing the page table and reducing the number of page faults, a larger value of P can improve the overall memory efficiency of the virtual memory system.

<mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">orange:</mark>
On the other hand, a larger value of P also means that the pages are larger and less flexible, which can result in more wasted space and increased fragmentation because:

1.  Increased wasted space: If the size of an allocation is smaller than the size of a page, the virtual memory system must still allocate an entire page to accommodate it. The unused portion of the page is then wasted, as it cannot be used to accommodate another allocation. If the value of P is larger, each page is larger, and thus more space will be wasted for small allocations.
    
2.  Increased fragmentation: The virtual memory system can allocate and deallocate pages as needed, but once a page is allocated, its size cannot be changed. If the size of an allocation changes, the virtual memory system must allocate a new page to accommodate it and deallocate the old page. If the value of P is larger, each page is larger, and thus more pages are required to accommodate the same amount of memory. This can result in increased fragmentation, as more pages are needed to accommodate the same amount of memory.


