## What is the malloc function?

The malloc function is a part of the C standard library and is an explicit allocator that can be used to allocate blocks of memory from the heap. 

### What does the malloc function return?
The malloc function returns a pointer to a block of memory of at least `size` bytes that is suitably aligned for any kind of data object that might be contained in the block.

The malloc function is declared in the `stdlib.h` header file.

```c
#include <stdlib.h>

void *malloc(size_t size);
```

The function returns a pointer to the allocated block if the allocation is successful, and `NULL` if there is an error. The memory allocated by malloc is not initialized, so if the application wants to initialize the memory, it can use the `calloc` function, which is a thin wrapper around the malloc function that initializes the memory to zero.

## How does malloc work?

Dynamic memory allocators such as malloc allocate or deallocate heap memory by using the `mmap` and `munmap` functions, or they can use the `sbrk` function. The `sbrk` function is declared in the `unistd.h` header file.

```c
#include <unistd.h>

void *sbrk(intptr_t incr);
```

The `sbrk` function grows or shrinks the heap by adding `incr` to the kernel's `brk` pointer. If the function is successful, it returns the old value of `brk`, and if it fails, it returns `-1` and sets `errno` to `ENOMEM`.

Historically, `sbrk()` was commonly used as a low-level mechanism for memory allocation before higher-level memory management functions like `malloc()` came into existence. It allowed programs to request additional memory from the operating system and manage it directly.

However, `sbrk()` is considered a low-level and less flexible interface compared to modern memory allocation functions. It lacks advanced features such as memory fragmentation management, thread safety, and efficient allocation strategies. Therefore, in most cases, it is recommended to use higher-level memory allocation functions like `malloc()` or memory management libraries that provide more robust and feature-rich memory management capabilities.

Today, the usage of `sbrk()` is relatively rare in application-level programming, but it may still be used in certain low-level system programming scenarios or when implementing custom memory management solutions.

## How do programs free allocated blocks?

Programs free allocated blocks by calling the `free` function. The `free` function is declared in the `stdlib.h` header file.
`void free(void *ptr);`

The `ptr` argument must point to the beginning of an allocated block that was obtained from `malloc`, `calloc`, or `realloc`. If the `ptr` argument does not point to the beginning of an allocated block, the behavior of `free` is undefined.

It is the responsibility of the application to not use the pointer to the freed block again until it is reinitialized by a new call to `malloc`.