## How can an application retrieve information about a file's metadata?

An application can retrieve information about a file's metadata by calling the `stat` and `fstat` functions:
```c
#include <unistd.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
int stat(const char *filename, struct stat *buf);
int fstat(int fd, struct stat *buf);
    // Returns: 0 if OK, -1 on error
```
## What is the difference between the stat and fstat functions?

The `stat` function takes a filename as input and fills in the members of a `stat` structure. The `fstat` function is similar, but it takes a file descriptor instead of a filename.

## What information is contained in the stat structure?

The `stat` structure contains metadata returned by the `stat` and `fstat` functions:
```c
struct stat {
    dev_t       st_dev;         /* Device */
    ino_t       st_ino;         /* inode */
    mode_t      st_mode;        /* Protection and file type */
    nlink_t     st_nlink;       /* Number of hard links */
    uid_t       st_uid;         /* User ID of owner */
    gid_t       st_gid;         /* Group ID of owner */
    dev_t       st_rdev;        /* Device type (if inode device) */
    off_t       st_size;        /* Total size, in bytes */
    unsigned long   st_blksize; /* Block size for filesystem I/O */
    unsigned long   st_blocks;  /* Number of blocks allocated */
    time_t      st_atime;       /* Time of last access */
    time_t      st_mtime;       /* Time of last modification */
    time_t      st_ctime;       /* Time of last change */
};
```
1.  `st_dev`: This field holds the device ID of the device that the file resides on.
    
    -   Usage: This field is usually used to determine if two files are located on the same file system.
    -   Rationale: The device ID helps identify the file system that the file is located on. When two files have the same device ID, it means that they are on the same file system and can be manipulated together.
2.  `st_ino`: This field holds the inode number of the file.
    
    -   Usage: The inode number is used to identify a file uniquely within a file system.
    -   Rationale: The inode number is used to locate the file's metadata on disk, and it is a unique identifier for the file within the file system.
3.  `st_mode`: This field holds the file type and protection information of the file. It is a bit mask that contains information about the file type and permissions.
    
    -   Usage: The file type information can be used to determine if a file is a regular file, directory, symbolic link, etc. The permission information can be used to determine if the file can be read, written to, or executed.
    -   Rationale: The file type information is used to determine how the file should be treated by the operating system, and the permission information is used to determine if a user has the necessary access rights to perform operations on the file.
4.  `st_nlink`: This field holds the number of hard links to the file.
    
    -   Usage: The number of hard links can be used to determine if a file is still in use or if it can be safely deleted.
    -   Rationale: A hard link is a directory entry that points to a file. When there are multiple hard links to a file, it means that the file is being used by multiple parts of the file system, and it should not be deleted until all links have been removed.
5.  `st_uid`: This field holds the user ID of the owner of the file.
    
    -   Usage: The user ID of the owner can be used to determine who owns the file and what permissions they have to access and manipulate the file.
    -   Rationale: The user ID is used to determine the file's owner, which is an important aspect of access control in the file system.
6.  `st_gid`: This field holds the group ID of the owner of the file.
    
    -   Usage: The group ID can be used to determine the group that the file belongs to, and it can be used to control access to the file.
    -   Rationale: The group ID is used to determine the group that the file belongs to, which can be used to control access to the file based on group membership.
7.  `st_rdev`: This field holds the device ID of the file if the file is a special file, such as a character or block device file.
    
    -   Usage: The device ID is used to determine the type of special file that the file represents.
    -   Rationale: The device ID is used to determine the type of special file, which can be used to perform operations specific to that type of file.
8.  `st_size`: This field holds the size of the file in bytes.
    
    -   Usage: The size of the file can be used to determine the amount of disk space used by the file.
    -   Rationale: The size of the file is
## How can you determine the file type from the st_mode member?

Linux defines macro predicates in `sys/stat.h` for determining the file type from the `st_mode` member:

-   `S_ISREG(m)`: Is this a regular file?
-   `S_ISDIR(m)`: Is this a directory file?
-   `S_ISSOCK(m)`: Is this a network socket?

## How can you read and interpret a file's st_mode bits?

You can use the `stat` function and the macro predicates to read and interpret a file's `st_mode` bits, as shown in the following example:

```c
#include "csapp.h"

int main (int argc, char **argv)
{
    struct stat stat;
    char *type, *readok;

    Stat(argv[1], &stat);
    if (S_ISREG(stat.st_mode))  /* Determine file type */
        type = "regular";
    else if (S_ISDIR(stat.st_mode))
        type = "directory";
    else
        type = "other";
    if ((stat.st_mode & S_IRUSR)) /* Check read access */
        readok = "yes";
    else
        readok = "no";

    printf("type: %s, read: %s\n", type, readok);
    exit(0);
}
```
This code snippet queries and manipulates a file's `st_mode` bits to determine the file type and whether the file has read access for the owner.