## What is I/O redirection in Linux shells and how does it work?

I/O redirection in Linux shells allows users to associate standard input and output with disk files. For example:

`linux> ls > foo.txt`

This command runs the `ls` program and redirects its standard output to the disk file `foo.txt`. I/O redirection can be performed using the `dup2` function.

int dup2(int oldfd, int newfd);`

The `dup2` function copies descriptor table entry `oldfd` to descriptor table entry `newfd`, overwriting the previous contents of descriptor table entry `newfd`. If `newfd` was already open, then `dup2` closes `newfd` before it copies `oldfd`.

Here is an example of using `dup2` to perform I/O redirection in a C program:
```c
#include <unistd.h>
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
    int fd, new_fd;
    
    // Open a file for writing, creating it if necessary
    fd = open("foo.txt", O_WRONLY | O_CREAT, 0666);
    if (fd < 0) {
        perror("open");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Redirect standard output to the file. The parameter `1` is passed in because it is the file descriptor for standard output
    new_fd = dup2(fd, 1);
    if (new_fd < 0) {
        perror("dup2");
        return -1;
    }
    
    // Write to standard output, which is now the file
    printf("This text will be written to the file foo.txt\n");
    
    // Close the file
    close(fd);
    
    return 0;
}
```
In this example, the `open` function is used to create or open the file `foo.txt` for writing. The `dup2` function is then used to redirect standard output (file descriptor 1) to the file (file descriptor `fd`). Finally, a `printf` call is made, which writes to standard output, which is now the file `foo.txt`.

## What happens when the dup2 function is called?

Suppose that before calling `dup2(4, 1)`, we have the situation where descriptor 1 (standard output) corresponds to file A (say, a terminal) and descriptor 4 corresponds to file B (say, a disk file). The <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">reference counts for A and B are both equal to 1</mark>. After calling `dup2(4, 1)`, the following changes occur:

1.  Both descriptors 1 and 4 now point to file B. The call to `dup2(4, 1)` duplicates the file descriptor 4 and associates it with descriptor 1. This means that both descriptor 1 and 4 now refer to the same file, which is file B. After this call, the reference count for file B is increased by 1, since both descriptors are now pointing to it.
2. File A has been closed, as descriptor 1 is overwritten by the dup2 function. This means that the reference count for File A is decremented.
If the reference count for File A becomes zero (i.e., no other descriptors point to File A), then the file table entry and v-node table entry for File A will be deleted.
3.  The reference count for file B is incremented.

From this point on, any data written to standard output are redirected to file B.

<mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">pink</mark>
The reference count for a file descriptor is the number of descriptors that refer to the same open file table entry. A file descriptor is a unique identifier that is assigned by the operating system to represent an open file. When a file is opened, the operating system creates an open file table entry and assigns a unique file descriptor to represent the entry.

In the situation described, descriptor 1 and descriptor 4 both refer to different open file table entries, one for file A and one for file B. Before calling dup2(4, 1), the reference count for both file descriptors is equal to 1 because each file descriptor refers to a unique open file table entry, and there are no other descriptors that refer to the same entry.