## How is addressing done for program objects that span multiple bytes?

In most machines, multi-byte objects are stored as a contiguous sequence of bytes. The address of the object is given by the smallest address of the bytes used. For example, if a variable `x` of type `int` has address 0x100, and the data type `int` has a 32-bit representation, the 4 bytes of `x` would be stored in memory locations 0x100, 0x101, 0x102, and 0x103.

## What are the two common conventions for ordering bytes representing an object?

The two common conventions for ordering bytes representing an object are:

1.  **Little endian**: The least significant byte comes first, i.e., it is stored at the lowest address.
2.  **Big endian**: The most significant byte comes first, i.e., it is stored at the lowest address.

### Why are byte ordering conventions important?

Byte ordering conventions are important because they determine how multi-byte objects are stored and accessed in memory. When binary data are communicated between machines with different byte ordering, proper conversion must be done to avoid errors.

### Can you give an example of little endian and big endian byte ordering?

Suppose the variable `x` of type `int` and at address 0x100 has a hexadecimal value of 0x01234567. The ordering of the bytes within the address range 0x100 through 0x103 depends on the type of machine:

| Byte ordering | Address | Value |
| :----------- | :-----: | :---: |
| Little endian | 0x100   | 0x67  |
| Little endian | 0x101   | 0x45  |
| Little endian | 0x102   | 0x23  |
| Little endian | 0x103   | 0x01  |
| Big endian    | 0x100   | 0x01  |
| Big endian    | 0x101   | 0x23  |
| Big endian    | 0x102   | 0x45  |
| Big endian    | 0x103   | 0x67  |


## How can byte ordering become visible in programs?

Byte ordering becomes visible in programs when:

1.  Binary data are communicated over a network between different machines.
2.  Inspecting byte sequences representing integer data in machine-level programs.
3.  Programs circumvent the normal type system, for example, using a cast or a union in the C language.

### Can you provide an example of how byte ordering becomes visible in programs?

Here's an example of a C code snippet that uses casting to access and print the byte representations of different program objects:

```c
#include <stdio.h>

typedef unsigned char *byte_pointer;

void show_bytes(byte_pointer start, size_t len) {
    int i;
    for (i = 0; i < len; i++)
        printf(" %.2x", start[i]);
    printf("\n");
}

void show_int(int x) {
    show_bytes((byte_pointer) &x, sizeof(int));
}

void show_float(float x) {
    show_bytes((byte_pointer) &x, sizeof(float));
}

void show_pointer(void *x) {
    show_bytes((byte_pointer) &x, sizeof(void *));
}
```
"show_int":
The `show_int` function takes an `int` variable `x` as input, and prints out the bytes that make up the integer value of `x`.

The `show_bytes` function is used as a helper function to achieve this. It takes a starting memory address `start` and a length `len` as inputs, and prints out the byte values at each memory location, in hexadecimal format, using the `printf` function.

The `show_int` function calls the `show_bytes` function, passing a casted pointer to `x` (i.e., `(byte_pointer) &x`) as the starting address and `sizeof(int)` as the length. This results in the `show_bytes` function printing out the individual bytes that make up the integer value of `x`, in the byte order that is determined by the underlying hardware architecture (i.e., little-endian or big-endian).

For example, if `x` has a value of `0x01234567` and the underlying hardware architecture is little-endian, the `show_int` function will call the `show_bytes` function with the starting address of `&x` and a length of `sizeof(int)`. The `show_bytes` function will then print out the individual bytes in hexadecimal format, in the following order: `67 45 23 01`. This output corresponds to the little-endian byte order representation of the integer value `0x01234567`.

When this code is run on different machines, the byte representations of the objects can reveal the byte ordering used by those machines. For example, if we run the code on little-endian and big-endian machines, we can see differences in the byte ordering of integers, floats, and pointers. This can help us understand the underlying architecture of the machines and the way they store data.

In the example provided earlier, the code was run on various machines, such as Linux 32, Windows, Sun, and Linux 64. The byte representations of integers and floats were identical, except for the byte ordering, which showed the difference between little-endian and big-endian machines. On the other hand, the pointer values were completely different due to different machine and operating system configurations using different conventions for storage allocation.